Show Hide article text (OCR)

t a j MAX LUTTBEG A pi w. mm ' 'v 1 St ' Cincinnati wrestler, who hae deigned to grant Jimmie Potts a try at his title of lightweight champion. . on the old ice yacht club island, Just across the channel from the MInnetonka Yacht club Island, during tho week ot the Inluud meet. A large tent has been secured for the purpose, while the sev eral members of tbe cluo wno are to take advantage of the outing will be located In smaller tonts. At least two other boats of the Calhoun Calhoun fleet are going to MInnetonka for the week In order to accommodate all members of the club who may be in attendance. attendance. Commodore Turner has consented consented to take his boat, tbe Hiawatha, and the treasurer, J. E. Tatam, will have his boat, the Wautoma, there also. It Is possible that othor members of the club mar be induced to take their boats along, but nothing positive has been de cided as yot. T. B. waiKer nas ainoiy donated the Island for tbe use of the club during their stay at MInnetonka. The members of the club are very reti cent as to the outcome of the races and their chances of success, but are pre-psred pre-psred pre-psred to do or to die tn an attempt to win. Their boat Is a very fast one, and If she loses the boat or boats that beat her out "will have to go some," to use the general expression of those who know what she Is capable of. She has a crew that are stickers, and If they are Calhoun It Is next to Impossible to secure secure a suitable location at tbe present time. It Is believed by those who are well up in thn club that within a short time arrangements will be made for the suitable housing of the club. Nothing sumptuous is bring planned as the club believes in starting at the bottom and building up rather than at the top and failing down. A small, neat, imellke structure Is planned where the members ot the club can meet and feel that it 1 all theirs. Several locations are under consideration at the present time, but nothing has been definitely decided upon. Arrangemtns are being made for a celebration celebration on Labor day, Sept. 7. The sailboat sailboat races will undoubtedly be held In the forenoon, while In the afternoon there will be launch, canoe, rowboat and swimming races, diving contests, tilting contests and other forms of amusement suitable to the water. A complete program program will be given later. The following offlcera of the club, well as all other members, are always ready and willing to enlighten all who ore interested enough to make Inquiries! Commodore, George W. Turner, 3045 Hennepin Hennepin avenue: secretary. H. S. Hodges, 303B South Holmes avenue, and treasurer, J. E. Tatam, SOU South James avenue. Potts Tickled at the Chance of Meeting Champion Luttbeg When announcement was made that Jimmie Potts, the local wrestler, would be given a try st the world's championship championship in hla clans, followers of the gums here picked up their ears and expressed sitllsT iction, for thoy have been waiting for J-isl J-isl J-isl urh a match ever sliit'e Jimmie took tu the mat game. l'olts Is matched to meet Max Luttbeg of Cincinnati at Normanua hall on Aug. 18 for the world's lightweight title. The reason f.ir that desire Is that Jimmie has shor) such class in handicap bouts that the knowing ones say that he is the best ever. All his matches have been with heavier men, who were too strong for tho local man. In spite of this, Potts has always impressed well and lila showing against "Deman" Bartl, a middleweight, is still frenh lu the minds of wroftllng fans. Last winter st tho Dewey Potts and Bartl put on about the best exhibition of clever mat work that bad been witnessed hire fur many a day. The two tusaeled tor bait an hour before the larger man coulj pin Jimmie and when the match was over he classed blm as about tbe slipperiest mau ho had ever faced. Wiuv nnrmtv A mateh tn whirh his OO- OO- pnnent will have nothing in weight, where uie pair win meci ou even leim mu iua victory will gu to the cleverest Jimmie Is fast, lightning fast, and what is more, he is still tn great trim after bis two fights in Canada where he licked the daliEhts out of the Canucks. He will go onto the mat conscious that he has an even chance and ready to make the best of that chance. He will make a grat opponent. Luttbeg Ib no stranger in Minneapolis. His viai'S here In the past have taught the public thnt he is everything he claims, unequalled by any man he has yet met. He his seen Potts work and realised realised that his title wks not char until he disposed of the Minneapolis man. He Is limiting for next-year next-year next-year capital and If he can claim a vietory over Totts, he will have a big scalp al hii belt. U will be match for blood