Lights shine inside the U.S. Capitol Building as night falls in Washington, Sunday, Jan. 21, 2018. (Photo: J. David Ake, AP)

WASHINGTON — A handful of candidates for Congress in Michigan, including a former nominee in one district, his party's only challenger in another and the daughter of a legendary Detroit broadcaster, may be left off the primary ballot this summer.

The Michigan Secretary of State's office on Wednesday made staff recommendations that seven congressional candidates — five Democrats and two Republicans — be left off their parties' Aug. 7 primary ballots because they lacked the 1,000 valid signatures from registered voters in their districts needed to qualify.

Among those recommended for being left off were Paul Clements, an economic development professor who in the last two elections was the unsuccessful Democratic nominee challenging U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph; Matt Morgan, the only Democrat running to replace first-term U.S. Rep. Jack Bergman, R-Watersmeet; and Kristine Bonds, a Republican businesswoman and the daughter of Detroit broadcaster Bill Bonds, who wants to replace retiring U.S. Rep. Dave Trott, R-Birmingham.

Read more:

Others who were found to be lacking the correct number of valid signatures included entrepreneur and lawyer Dan Haberman, who is running as a Democrat in a crowded field in Trott's district; Nick Schiller, one of two Democrats running to take on U.S. Rep. Bill Huizenga, R-Zeeland; Joe Farrington, a bar owner challenging U.S. Rep. Justin Amash, R-Cascade Township in the Republican primary; and Eponine Garrod, another Democrat running in the primary to take on Upton this fall.

With the exception of Clements, all are newcomers running for elected office. Fred Woodhams, a spokesman for the Secretary of State's office, said the Board of State Canvassers will meet Friday to consider the reports, but they are usually accepted.

Last week, the Free Press reported that Wayne County Clerk Cathy Garrett had deemed John Conyers III ineligible for the Democratic primary ballot to replace his father, former U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr., D-Detroit, in Congress, because of invalid signatures. The younger Conyers on Tuesday filed a lawsuit in attempt to force his way onto the ballot.

Read more:

The other candidates could also ask a court to put them on the ballot as well, if the Board of Canvassers accepts the reports and keeps them off.

Neither Clements, Bonds nor Morgan or their campaigns immediately responded to e-mails or calls for comment from the Free Press. Morgan's campaign — alerted early this month that he could be left off the ballot because he used a post office box instead of a street address as state law appears to require in one place — said he would run a write-in campaign if necessary.

Haberman's campaign, meanwhile, said only that it was attempting to get answers to questions from the state Elections Board and had no further comment at this time.

State law makes several requirements regarding petition signatures, including that each signer's address be complete and correct as well as dated and that petition circulators provide information. No more than 2,000 signatures total may be provided when filing for the ballot.

In the cases of Morgan (17 valid signatures), Bonds (858 valid signatures) and Garrod (974 valid signatures), their numbers were determined by the Secretary of State's initial review. In those of Clements (991 signatures), Farrington (843 signatures), Schiller (738 signatures) and Haberman (944 signatures), each had their petitions challenged and were more closely scrutinized by staff.

Contact Todd Spangler at 703-854-8947 or at tspangler@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter at @tsspangler.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2J2N9IT