The Pirates Lose a Port: Destruction of Barataria Bay pirate colony, 1814

Location: New Orleans, LA

Some legends get more interesting the more you hear about them. Jean Lafitte earns his legendary status, as a smuggler, local business leader, and unlikely battlefield hero. His biggest moment occurred in 1814 when future President Andrew Jackson cut a deal with him to help defend New Orleans from the British.

The forgotten part of the story comes before that happened, with a U.S. attack on a pirate colony that supplied Lafitte with his contraband. It was located on an island in Barataria Bay, south of New Orleans. The residents, a fluctuating population that could grow to 1,000, called themselves Baratarians. It was a complete port, with warehouses, taverns, and facilities to outfit ships flying under the dubious flag of the Republic of Cartagena. Jean Lafitte stayed here, helping ships prepare to raid the seaways and arranging small craft to smuggle the good into New Orleans. There, his brother and other confederates would store and auction the loot.

The U.S., facing some bad times in the against the British (the War of 1812) was afraid that Lafitte would cut a deal with their enemies and help the British take New Orleans. Lafitte has offered his services to the United States, and most historians cite his very real patriotism, but the fear and loathing for the pirate lingered. So in September, a U.S. Navy flotilla headed for Barataria.



The USS Carolina and six gunboats squared off against ten pirate ships that formed a battle line across the bay. The battle was not much of one; the pirates seemed to be buying for time. This was likely by design, as Lafitte wanted room to negotiate with authorities later and a pitched battle would hardly help that cause. After the pirates fled, the U.S. Navy moved in, destroying the facilities and seizing a half a million in contraband on top of the ships that the pirates didn’t torch.



Lafitte and his pirates escaped en masse, and soon cut their famous deal with Jackson to supply cannon and men for the looming battle against the British. This battle would be fought after the conflict was officially over, but before they heard about the cessation. The Baratarians influenced the battle against the British disproportionate to their small numbers because of their experience with cannons.

Where to Catch a Glimpse: Don’t be fooled! The Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve is nice, but it’s located way too far north to be close to the pirate colony’s location. To get to the real spot, take Route 1 all the way to the end of Grand Island. One of the islands you can spy from the park there could double for the pirate colony.

For those who don’t want to leave New Orleans—which is understandable—you can get the feel for the era by knocking back some drinks at Lafitte’s Blacksmith Shop. This is one of the oldest active taverns in the nation and is certainly one of the city’s oldest buildings. Documentation is thin, but it’s strongly believed to be one of the pirate’s many front operations where he stored contraband. (His brother and business partner was a blacksmith, and any smuggling business relied on horseshoes as much as small boats and large ships.) You'll find it in the French Quarter at 941 Bourbon Street.