By StoryStudio

<span style=”display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;” data-mce-type=”bookmark” class=”mce_SELRES_start”>﻿</span>&amp;amp;lt;span data-mce-type=”bookmark” style=”display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;” class=”mce_SELRES_start”&amp;amp;gt;﻿&amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span data-mce-type=”bookmark” style=”display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;” class=”mce_SELRES_start”&amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;﻿&amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span data-mce-type=”bookmark” style=”display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;” class=”mce_SELRES_start”&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;﻿&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;

The Gable Mansion is one of California’s little known but lovingly cherished treasures. Now you have an opportunity to own this piece of local history.

Located in Woodland, near Sacramento and bike-friendly Davis, California, the Gable Mansion honors Victorian architecture in every detail. Yet it also features many modern conveniences, like an indoor swimming pool.

If you’re looking for a one-of-a-kind getaway in a peaceful setting, schedule a tour of the Gable Mansion today. Here are 25 reasons why.

1. It’s a State Historical Landmark, No. 864. California has recognized the Gable Mansion as a work of art both inside and out.

2. There are a total of 42 rooms and living areas, including six bedrooms and six baths in the main house, and a bedroom and half bath in the Carriage House—more than enough room for your family and guests.

3. Each floor has a purpose. The first floor is the living area for cooking, dining, relaxing, and entertaining. The second floor with five bedrooms and three bathrooms is for sleeping. The third floor is a home unto itself with a bedroom, kitchen, bathroom, living room, study, exercise room and dining room. The lower basement level of the home is for having fun. It has a large theater, swimming pool room, wine cellar, and bathroom.

4. The main house clocks in at 11,203 square feet, and the Carriage House measures 908 square feet, for a total of more than 12,000 square feet of living space.

5. YesterTec cabinetry in the kitchen makes it look like a mahogany-lined den. Modern appliances stay out of sight. A butler’s pantry provides even more storage.

6. The kitchen features a 500-gallon saltwater aquarium and a 1920s stained glass dome over the food preparation area.

7. Next to the kitchen, you’ll find a spacious red mahogany-walled dining room. Look up to admire the W. F. Norman hand-stamped tin ceiling. Look around you to find 10-foot beveled glass doors, a Tiffany-designed peacock stained glass window and gas and electric chandeliers. Your dinner parties will rule.

8. The master bath features a large Jacuzzi Fontana whirlpool bath, and there is a J-Dream Jacuzzi steam shower in the third floor bathroom.

9. Use the third floor as a guest suite. It includes a kitchen, bathroom, master bedroom, family room, library, exercise room, parlor and utility/storage rooms. A stained glass cupola dome in the center sets this area apart.

10. The third floor’s exercise room comes with a Precor Treadmill, Elliptical, Stair Master, Everlast heavy bag and speed bag and Proform weight-lifting machine.

11. A large modern Gable Theater (designed after a Parisian opera house) features a 120-inch Stewart screen and THX/Dolby surround sound. A vintage-style popcorn machine produces delicious snacks, while 20,000 feet of fiber-optic lighting in the ceiling provides a thousand points of light to mimic the stars.

12. The original hand-painted stenciled ceilings in the parlors, family room and library have all been recently restored to their former glory.

13. With seven fireplaces—two wood, three gas, one wood pellet and one light insert—you’ll stay warm all winter.

14. A red mahogany four floor elevator will get you from the lower level to the top floor

15. Themed, hand-stenciled and silk-screened Bradbury wallpaper covers the bedroom walls and ceilings, with custom carpet borders to match.

16. Eight-foot-tall stained glass windows line many of the rooms.

17. Kohler Artist Edition hand-painted sinks, toilets and wall tiles can be found in each bathroom.

18. The Endless Pools Swim/Spa in the pool room comes with audiovisual screens so you can change the room’s ambience. The pool room also features a lighted sky and clouds ceiling and exquisite pure white mother-of-pearl tiles. Black granite and gold-flecked floor tiles accent Paua Shell wainscoting on the walls.

19. In addition to a bedroom, kitchen, and family room, the two-story Carriage House has room for three cars and the walls are lined with floor-to-ceiling storage cabinets.

20. The large, 36,000-square-foot lot features Michael Glassman-designed landscaping. You’ll also find a large swimming pool with a rock waterfall in the backyard. The front yard features a Victorian gazebo with an elevated knot garden, fountain and sculptures—perfect for spending lazy summer days outdoors.

21. Outside, you’ll also find more than 600 rose bushes, as well as numerous sculpted topiaries.

22. Advanced security and modern lighting keep you safe.

23. Woodland is a safe city of about 55,000 people with lots of open space. And you’re only about 20 miles from Sacramento.

24. You’re also a short drive from I-5 and I-80, yet you’re centered in a charming town with a rich history. Take a walk through Woodland’s downtown and admire the historic buildings.

25. Not one of them rivals the historic Gable Mansion.

To schedule a tour of the Gable Mansion, located at 659 1st Street, Woodland, contact Shea McGuire-Keane, McGuire Capital Group Realty, at 707-301-1349 or email sheamcguire@gmail.com.

Shea McGuire DRE#01380579

MCGR DRE#01902240

NMLS#899662