Buy Photo A display featuring thr Chewbacca and Han Solo costumes seen at "Star Wars and the Power of Costume" exhibit during media preview at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

It's no Jedi mind trick. The "Star Wars and the Power of Costume" show at the Detroit Institute of Arts, which opens Sunday, has it all. Clothes worn by Leia, Luke, Obi-Wan, Chewie, Finn and various Darths, including the one who sounds like James Earl Jones.

With more than 60 handmade costumes — think intergalactic haute couture — and even more concept drawings, artworks, textiles and accessories from the archives of George Lucas, it's a spectacular experience that shouldn't be missed.

It can take your breath away to see Darth Vader's full regalia on display. But there are less expected treasures, too. Scouring the exhibition during Thursday's media preview, I found these nine nice surprises:

1. Princess Leia's slave costume

Buy Photo Princess Leia's slave costume from Jabba's Palace is part of the collection at "Star Wars™ and the Power of Costume" at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

You expect to see essentials like Leia's simple white gown and Obi-Wan Kenobi's brown robes amidst the dozens of classic costumes. But the famous outfit from 1983's "Return of the Jedi" that kick-started puberty for a generation of fans? The "bikini from hell," as actress Carrie Fisher called it, is the sole sexy departure from the family-friendly content.

2. Concept art from the cantina scene

Buy Photo Cantina concept art by John Mallo,1976 is at Star Wars and the Power of Costume media preview at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Sketched by John Mollo in 1976, it's an early version of the wacky characters who populate the iconic bar scene from 1977's "Star Wars." Mollo labeled some of the prototypes "weird girl," "local ugly men," "walrus," and scariest of all, "bureaucrats."

3. How-to-dress-Darth-Vader instructions

Buy Photo Detailed directions for dressing Darth Vader can be seen at "Star Wars and the Power of Costume" show at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

You think it's easy becoming the most famous Sith Lord villain in history? The exhibition boasts a 14-step guide to putting on the complete Vader costume that is complicated enough to make you forsake the dark side for a cozy Jedi robe.

4. Padme Amidala's wedding gown

Buy Photo The wedding gown for Padme Amidala is on display at "Star Wars and the Power of Costume" show at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

With apologies to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, now that's a royal wedding. Padme (played by Natalie Portman) opted for a simple v-neck gown and scarf-like veil for her secret marriage to Anakin Skywalker on the planet Naboo in 2002's "Attack of the Clones." Guess Windsor Castle was booked.

5. Finn's jacket

Buy Photo From left, the costume for Rey and Finn's leather jacket Finn were both worn in 2015 at Star Wars and the Power of Costume media preview at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Not every piece of clothing displayed in the galleries is futuristic. John Boyega looked sharp in 2015's "The Force Awakens" in this signature piece, decorated with pleated strips running down each sleeve. If Members Only made a galactic jacket, this would be it.

6. Darth Maul concept art

Buy Photo "Worst Nightmare" by Iaian McCaig, 1995-96 shows a youthful Darth Maul at Star Wars and the Power of Costume at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Created in 1995-96 by Iain McCaig, three illustrations reveal what the artist came up with when George Lucas asked him to draw his worst nightmare. "He then asked me to back off a bit and draw my second worst nightmare," McCaig said, according to the gallery text. Either way, that Goth kid with the stringy red hair is mega-creepy.

7. Senate Guard outfit

Buy Photo A Senate Guard costume from 1999 is displayed at "Star Wars and the Power of Costume" at the Detroit Institute of Arts in Detroit, Thursday, May 17, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Introduced in 1999's "The Phantom Menace," the uniform of the security force of the Galactic Republic looks sort of a like a glam rocker crossed with a Roman centurion. Either way, here's hoping that Rihanna wears it at the next Met gala.

8. Chewie button

Buy Photo A Chewbacca button allows visitors to listen to his roar. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Next to the podium where Han Solo's devoted pal and co-pilot of the Millennium Falcon is located, there's a fur-festooned version of a big game-show button. Push it to hear the distinctive sound of Chewbacca talking. It goes something like, "WHAAAARHGA ... gurgle ... WHAUUURRRRRRAGH." You're welcome.

9. Exit through the gift shop

Buy Photo The gift shop at the "Star Wars and the Power of Costume" exhibition at the Detroit Institute of Arts. (Photo: Detroit Free Press staff)

Be sure to leave an extra 45 minutes for browsing the pop-up "Star Wars"-themed store selling a constellation of fun items. Hey, the Porg key chain is mine!

Contact Detroit Free Press pop culture columnist Julie Hinds: 313-222-6427 or jhinds@freepress.com.

'Star Wars and the Power of Costume'

Opens Sunday and runs through Sept. 30, with preview days for members Friday and Saturday

Detroit Institute of Arts

Time slots for the exhibition are expected to sell out, so purchasing tickets in advance is recommended. Buy at the DIA box office, website, or by calling 313-833-4005.

Tickets for adults are $19 Tue.-Thu., $24 Fri.-Sun. Wayne, Oakland and Macomb county residents receive a $5 discount per ticket. Tickets for ages 6–17 are $7. Discounts available for groups of 15 or more.

The exhibition is not included with the general DIA admission that is free for residents of Wayne, Oakland and Macomb counties.

Regular museum hours are 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Tue.-Thu., 9 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri., 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Sat. and Sun. Extended hours for the exhibition are 4-8 p.m. Thu. (exhibition and South Wing open), 9-10 a.m. Sat. (museum open), 5-8 p.m. Sat. (exhibition and South Wing open) and 9-10 a.m. Sun.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2GuPDgQ