By StoryStudio













































































Image 1 of / 20 Caption Close Image 2 of 20 Image 3 of 20 Image 4 of 20 Image 5 of 20 Image 6 of 20 Image 7 of 20 Image 8 of 20 Image 9 of 20 Image 10 of 20 Image 11 of 20 Image 12 of 20 Image 13 of 20 Image 14 of 20 Image 15 of 20 Image 16 of 20 Image 17 of 20 Image 18 of 20 Image 19 of 20 Image 20 of 20 5 Unexpected Ways to Enjoy V. Sattui Winery 1 / 20 Back to Gallery

If you’ve been to Napa Valley, you probably already know about V. Sattui Winery, the go-to summer favorite for those who enjoy eating and drinking in the great outdoors. Locals and visitors alike flock to V. Sattui’s famous marketplace and tasting room to fill a basket with a wide range of award-winning wines and artisan foods: freshly-made sandwiches, salads, pastas, and customizable charcuterie plates featuring over 200 types of cheese. Then, it’s off to V. Sattui’s gorgeous grounds—two acres dotted with tables in the shade of giant oak trees (kids and pets welcome!)—for a dreamy afternoon picnic surrounded by postcard-perfect vineyards.

But there’s far more to V. Sattui Winery than picnics. In fact, the vineyards’ big bold wines are some of the best in the valley, and the diverse array of tasting rooms and event spaces offers myriad ways for oenophiles to indulge. Read on for a deeper look into one of Napa Valley’s favorite wineries—and five more ways to make the most of your trip.

1. Gather on the terrace for vino with a view. For one of the best al fresco vantage points in the valley, V. Sattui’s private tasting terrace is a must-visit. Make a reservation, invite a few friends, and settle in at a table warmed by the sun and overlooking the lush, rolling acres of Vittorio’s Vineyard. The 45-minute tastings include five hand-picked wines from V. Sattui’s top-tier portfolio, along with mixed olives and almonds to keep your palate fresh. Up the ante with artisanal cheese pairings, and feel free to stick around for the day, sipping your top picks at the outdoor bar.

2. Host a private party on the lawn. There’s no doubt that V. Sattui is one of the most beautiful properties in Napa Valley: a stunning, vine-covered, Italian-style chateau made of stone and surrounded by fairy-lit courtyards, blooming flower gardens, and the verdant vineyards beyond. Whether you’re looking to host a gathering for friends, a work luncheon, a birthday party or even a wedding (it’s one of the only Napa Valley wineries to host nuptials and has been selected as one of the top five winery wedding venues in the world!), V. Sattui offers a variety of different spaces suited to your needs. Make the most of its rustic, romantic charm by booking Vittorio’s Vineyard Lawn for a private tasting under massive umbrellas or a wedding ceremony amid the grapes for up to 250, followed by a reception in the barrel cellar.

3. Get educated in style at the tower tasting room. If you’re looking for a more cozy and intimate space to sip, V. Sattui’s luxurious Tower Tasting Room should be at the top of your list. Inside the castle-esque winery’s iconic tower, the vibe is similar to a classic gentleman’s lounge, though all are welcome. Slip away from the crowds and sample award-winning, single-vineyard wines along with older vintage cabernets. During winter months, enjoy this experience beside a crackling fire, perfect for rainy days. The onsite hosts seem more like uber-knowledgeable old friends, and offer a wealth of information about each of the five wines on the rotating tasting menu. An additional $15 brings your choice of sweet or savory pairings: locally made artisanal chocolates or a selection of dry aged cheeses, Spanish-style membrillo, and cured meats. Take things up a notch with a selection of cigars, perfect for puffing beside the firepit. Pro tip: make a reservation to guarantee a spot!

4. Experience VIP treatment at the members-only Cellar Club. Joining V. Sattui’s Wine of the Month or Cellar Clubs is easy; all you have to do is buy a case of one dozen wines, get a 10% discount, sit back and let the benefits roll in. You’ll get discounts on award-winning wines delivered right to your door, along with complimentary tastings and barrel sampling any time you visit the winery. Venture below to the spacious yet elegant Cellar Club, where highly educated staff members pour exclusive sips for you and three of your friends or family members. The Gold Room cellar cave offers sit-down pairings and dining experiences led during the spring, summer and fall months by Michelin Star chef Stefano Masanti, who specializes in Italian fare, and loves to experiment and educate his guests on each bite and sip. The spaces are also available to rent out for private parties, and often host special events for members, such as the Italian Festival and a series of blending seminars.

5. Take a once-in-a-lifetime trip abroad. Ready to take your love of wine overseas? V. Sattui offers an expertly curated series of adventures built just for oenophiles. Set off for the lush valleys of Tuscany to stay at Dario Sattui’s private monastery and olive orchard, tucked inside a 10th-century monastery that’s been skillfully restored and kitted out with a swimming pool, pond, outdoor kitchen, and pergola for al fresco dining amid the breathtaking hills and valleys of Tuscany. Or, opt for the President’s Wine Cruise: 14 days sailing from Sydney, Australia to Auckland, New Zealand with V. Sattui’s President Tom Davies and Director of Winemaking Brooks Painter onboard the intimate, 680-guest Regatta. Spring and Fall wine-driven tours of Tuscany, Umbria, and Piedmont are also offered. Buon viaggio!