It was June 6, 1998, when “Sex and the City” premiered on HBO — introducing the world to only-in-New-York dramas, trends and heartbreaks that women in Seattle and Omaha nonetheless recognized (or at least wanted to emulate). Here are 26 ways the show made its mark.

A: Amy Sacco

In the early aughts, the nightlife maven’s members-only Chelsea club, Bungalow 8, was the hottest spot in town — drawing celebrities such as Kate Moss and George Clooney. But Sacco told The Post that Carrie Bradshaw (Sarah Jessica Parker) mentioning it in “Sex and the City” is what “put us on the map worldwide. The brand recognition was epic.” Sacco, now a lifestyle entrepreneur (Bungalow closed in 2009), yearns for the nightlife of yore, as epitomized on the show: “[Today,] most clubs are only really going three or four nights a week. We used to be seven nights — full crazy fun.”

B: Big

Carrie’s love interest, Mr. Big (Chris Noth), an older, wealthy, seemingly commitment-phobic businessman, “is not a feminist idea,” admitted Candace Bushnell, who authored the New York Observer relationship column that became the hit HBO show. In fact, she never imagined him as Carrie’s ever-after. “To me, Mr. Big was meant to be sort of a phase Carrie got over . . . But it’s an incredibly overwhelmingly powerful romantic ideal that I think that women are very, very loath to give up.”

C: Cosmos

The fave drink (vodka, cranberry juice, lime juice and Cointreau) of the “SATC” ladies became ubiquitous — and mocked. Creator Toby Cecchini once said that bartenders would scream at him: “‘You invented the Cosmopolitan, you f – – k!’” But on a 2017 Drinks International list of best-selling cocktails worldwide, the Cosmo didn’t even make the top 25.

D: Dating younger men

Samantha Jones (Kim Cattrall) was the show’s sexual libertine — and her relationship with hunky, considerably younger actor Smith Jerrod (Jason Lewis) made being a cougar fashionable. Before, the idea was more of a joke: “I remember writing about women being with younger guys back in 1995. [The guys] were called himbos,” said Bushnell.

E: Elizabeth Taylor

When Charlotte York (Kristin Davis) adopted a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, named Elizabeth Taylor, in 2004, the world took notice. Per Brandi Hunter at the American Kennel Club, the breed’s popularity ranking went from No. 54 in 2000 to No. 32 in 2004, climbing to No. 19 in 2017. “[‘SATC’] brought into people’s living room a breed they did not often see,” said Hunter. “They are easy to fall in love with.”

F: Fleet Week

The annual event — when the crews of military ships dock in NYC for a week — provoked a sexual free-for-all in a 2002 episode, with Charlotte flashing one hunky sailor and Carrie sultrily dancing with another. In reality, said NewYorkCliche.com blogger Mary Lane Townsend, “[The sailors are] teenagers who are awkward and have pimples. Most are not the hot studly men we were led to believe.”

G: Gay BFFs

Boyfriends come and go, but a gay BFF — Stanford (Willie Garson) for Carrie and Anthony (Mario Cantone) for Charlotte — is forever. Said show creator Darren Star, “It’s something that, to me, was such a fabric of New York and friendships that was very, very organic.”

H: “He’s just not that into you”

“One of the writers asked if a guy she was seeing who didn’t want to have sex with her liked her,” said “SATC” consultant Greg Behrendt of the impetus for one of the show’s most quoted lines. “I said, ‘No. He’s just not that into you.’” The line made it into the script, and Behrendt and “SATC” writer Liz Tuccillo co-authored a book by the same name in 2004. Five years later, it became a movie starring Jennifer Aniston.

I: “I’m a Carrie”

Fans were quick to pledge allegiance to their favorite “SATC” lady — and even judge other women on which one they most identified with. “As much as [fans] were inspired by them, they saw a reflection of themselves in these characters,” said Star. “I think, in reality, everybody is a little bit of all those characters.”

J: Jimmy Choos, Manolos & Louboutins

The show “made [pricey] shoes an aspirational purchase,” said New York Fashion Week creator Fern Mallis. Tamara Mellon, who co-founded Jimmy Choo, said the episode when Carrie loses hers on the Staten Island ferry turned the brand into a household name. “Before, you had to read Vogue and Bazaar to get it but suddenly we had this giant audience.”

K: Knock-offs

Carrie and her crew were logo-obsessed, and fans took notice. “Consumers wanted Carrie’s Fendi baguette with double F’s. And if you couldn’t get it, you’d get fake on Canal Street,” said Dana Thomas, author of “Deluxe: How Luxury Lost Its Luster.” But after the economic crash of 2008, logos — and, consequently, knock-offs — began to fall out of fashion.

L: Library

After Carrie and Mr. Big’s infamous wedding scene at the main New York Public Library branch, Emily Esposito, director of special events at NYPL, said the top question from tourists was: “Where was the movie filmed?” Before the movie, the library held nine to 12 weddings a year, she added. Now it holds between 14 and 16. “We saw a huge uptick in calls [from brides-to-be],” Esposito said. “Girls calling from Omaha. And when I told them [it costs] $60,000 to rent the space alone, they would say, ‘OK, thanks.’ ”

M: Magnolia Bakery

A 30-second scene of Carrie and Miranda (Cynthia Nixon) eating cupcakes outside the West Village bakery turned the desserts into a phenomenon — and the shop into a tourist attraction. “There were no lines [out the door] before ‘Sex and the City,’ ” said owner Steve Abrams. “Sales tripled or quadrupled after the episode. [The shop was suddenly doing] 2 or 3 million in sales.” But all sweet things come to an end: When Abrams bought Magnolia in 2007, cupcakes accounted for 60 percent of business. “Now it’s one-third of sales,” he said.

N: Nameplate necklace

Carrie’s omnipresent gold necklace with her name spelled out launched a million copycats. It’s a trend that continues to this day. “Millennials are so much in love with themselves that of course they’d wear necklaces announcing who they are,” said Mallis.

O: Orgasm

“SATC” broke barriers by showing women seeking pleasure for themselves — not for men. “It was a show where women were objectifying men,” said Star. “That’s why the men didn’t really have names. They had nomenclatures [Spring Roll Guy, Marathon Man, Big]. They were objectified.”

P: Patricia Field

Blame her for the oversize flower-pin trend. The wardrobe designer, previously known for her eponymous Soho boutique, became a star thanks to “SATC.” She created Carrie’s feminine-meets-sexy — and sometimes, just ridiculous — style (think: a fur coat and slip dress for a baseball game). “I’ve always been a proponent of individuality,” Field said. She went on to work on “The Devil Wears Prada” and “Younger” and was a “Project Runway” judge.

Q: Quantum cheating

“SATC” was a wellspring of witty phrases describing relationship dramas: ugly sex (hooking up with someone you despise), try-sexual (Samantha would try anything once), even up-the-butt girl (“Nobody marries the up-the-butt girl!” Charlotte told a lover who wanted her to try anal sex). Carrie spoke about quantum cheating in a 1999 episode when she argued in defense of a cheating curve. “It was looking at accepting the gray areas of life . . . and how do you hold onto your integrity and dignity and still live realistically,” said Star, who wrote the episode.

R: Rabbit

Vibratex, maker of this dual-action vibrator, saw a 300 percent sales increase after Charlotte became addicted to one. “We had to ramp up production,” said vice president Shay Martin. She added that, for years, stores sold more each time a rerun aired.

S: Smoking

In the early years of the show, Carrie often lit up. “I might have known two people who didn’t [smoke],” said Bushnell of the 1990s. In 2003, NYC banned smoking in bars and restaurants — and Carrie, like many locals, tried to quit. There are reportedly 300,000 fewer NYC smokers in 2013 than in 2002.

T: Tao Restaurateur

Rich Wolf, of TAO Group, said “SATC” gave sexy eateries of the era, such as Cafeteria, Il Cantinori and Sushi Samba, “instant credibility” by filming there. “The day the episode aired with Tao, I could not walk by a table without hearing the words ‘Sex and the City.’ ” Sales that first week soared 20 percent, and another 20 percent the week after. “Then [there was] a bus tour, taking people to all the show’s locations. We were the last stop and everybody would stay and get a drink,” Wolf recalled. “We enjoyed the halo effect well after the episode aired.”

U: Upper East Side

Star calls New York City the “fifth character” of the show. But that character has evolved. The Meatpacking District — Samantha’s home, depicted as a gritty up-and-coming nightlife mecca — is now overrun by bachelorette parties. Abhorred Brooklyn is chic. The West Village is mostly unaffordable unless you’re a celebrity — and the Upper East Side (home to Charlotte, who lived at 930 Park Ave.) is suddenly the best deal in town.

V: Vogue

“Carrie would be mourning the magazine business [now] — the passing of that era,” said Star of the character, who freelanced for Vogue. “But she’s also kind of old-fashioned. I think she’d still be at Vogue.” Too bad the mag’s website called her “dated” and “childish” in 2017.

W: Wax

Before “SATC” broached Brazilian bikini waxes in a rip-roaring 2000 episode, they were only seen in Playboy, said Jonice Padilha, who co-owns the Midtown spa J. Sisters, which was name-checked on the show. “Our business doubled,” said Padilha. “It was crazy.’’ While au naturel looks have had a comeback, Padilha said the Brazilian is still her main service. “Eighty percent of our clients get a Brazilian.”

X: X-rated

“SATC” brought topics previously reserved for the bedroom into America’s living room: There were candid discussions about anal sex, bondage and sex toys including the Magic Wand — a neck massager Samantha was convinced was a vibrator. Despite the raciness, Parker had it written into her contract that she would not show her breasts on camera (the other actresses bared theirs). “It was totally fine,” said Star. “This show wasn’t about nudity. This show was about being frank and funny and honest and talking about things that just hadn’t been expressed before.”

Y: Yogurt

Tasti D-Lite — the chain founded in NYC in 1987 — gained a cult following after the low-fat frozen dessert popped up on “SATC” a couple of times. “At its peak, [the business had] 90 locations in NYC,” said BJ Emerson, a former vice president of the company. Now there are just seven, according to a Tasti D spokesperson.

Z: Zsa zsa zsu

On the show, Carrie defines this as, “The butterflies when you not only love the person but you’ve gotta have them.” For fans, it’s the feeling they still have for the show. “I’ve traveled to places like Sri Lanka where young women in their 20s thank me because ‘Sex and the City’ allowed them to say, ‘Look, I don’t have to marry that horrible guy,’ ” said Bushnell. “ ‘I can have some control over my life.’ ”