U.S.A. –-(Ammoland.com)- AR rifles are great for hunting, self-defense and just plain fun. However, as any avid shooter knows, 5.56/.223 Rem. ammunition can get quite expensive, especially when training. As a result, many shooters look for an AR rifle chambered in .22 LR or conversion parts for turning their current AR platform into a money-saving trainer or plinking gun.

2A Armament has developed two dedicated .22 LR rifles – the Balios-lite and the Aethon. Both rifles are extremely light, with the Balios weighing a mere 3 pounds, 10 ounces, and the Aethon being only an ounce more. Both rifles also feature 2A Armament's patent-pending ultralight .22 LR bolt, along with a MAGPUL MIAD grip and a Mission First minimalist stock. The uppers, lowers and barrel are machined from 7075-T6 billet aluminum, with a rifled steel insert placed inside the fluted barrel.

Features and Specs:

2A AETHON, or BALIOS LITE GEN 2 LOWER RECEIVER – CNC machined 7075-T6 billet with flared mag-well, hard coat type-III anodized, rear tensioning screw, rear takedown spring retainer.

2A BALIOS LITE GEN 2 UPPER RECEIVER – CNC machined 7075-T6 billet “slick side” design, machined indexing marks.

2A 22LR BOLT-Grade 5 6AL-4V Titanium Bolt, Stainless Steel Barrel Collar, High-Quality Polymer buffer (Patent Pending).

2A 22LR FLUTED BARREL – 16.5″, 7075-T6 Billet aluminum barrel, rifled 4140 steel insert, 1:16 Twist,1/2×28 thread with thread protector.

2A RECEIVER EXTENSION – 2A Armament buffer tube and 2A latch plate,

2A HANDGUARD – 2A Armament 12″ 6061 extruded Aethon or BL G2 rail (depending on the lower ordered), M-LOK, aluminum barrel nut.

CHARGING HANDLE: BCM-mod4

STOCK/GRIP – MAGPUL MIAD Grip, Mission First minimalist stock.

LOWER PARTS – 2A magazine catch, 2A through drilled titanium takedown pins

TRIGGER – ALG-ACT trigger group with optional light or heavy hammer spring.

WEIGHT – 3 lbs. 10 oz. (Balios-lite lower/rail), 3 lbs. 11 oz. (Aethon lower/rail)

Ships with one 15 Round 2A Armament AR 22LR Magazine and die-cut foam box

Product of the Great State of Idaho, MADE IN THE U.S.A.

For those wanting to convert their own lower, 2A Armament offers a complete .22 LR upper that weighs in at only 2 lbs. 4 oz., thanks to its titanium bolt and steel-insert aluminum barrel. Conversion is extremely easy, as the 2A Armament .22 LR upper fits all mil-spec lowers via the takedown pins, quickly turning any AR-15 into an accurate .22 LR rifle. The upper comes with the quality and features expected from 2A Armament, such as a mil-spec port door, a retained port door rod, MLOK aluminum barrel nut and a BCM-mod4 charging handle.

For enthusiasts who want to build their own dedicated .22 LR AR rifle, 2A Armament offers a solution for in its .22 LR Bolt Carrier and Barrel Kit. With the patent-pending ultralight titanium bolt carrier and lightweight .22 LR fluted barrel, this kit allows the user to convert any standard AR upper to a .22 LR receiver. The 7-ounce bolt carrier features stainless-steel collar, ejector, extractor and firing pin and a synthetic polymer buffer. The 16-inch barrel is made of 7075 aluminum, with a 1:16 twist steel insert, which keeps the weight down to a mere 13 ounces. It comes with a 1/2-threaded end for attaching flash hiders, brakes or suppressors, along with a thread protector for those who just want a great firing rifle.

2A Armament even has a drop-in AR .22 LR Conversion Bolt Carrier designed to fit standard AR-15 5.56/.223 Rem. chambered rifles. This patent-pending design features a titanium bolt, a stainless-steel barrel collar with 5.56 chamber plug, dual balanced reciprocating springs, and a polymer buffer.

Now AR-15 rifles are fun and useful, and thanks to 2A Armament, they can also be cost-effective in regard to ammo spent in both fun and training.

For more information, please visit www.2a-arms.com.

About 2A Armament

Built with performance and craftsmanship in mind, 2A Armament offers a dynamic line up of hunting and precision rifles, uppers, parts, and accessories. 2A Armament's facilities feature state of the art manufacturing and process controls to ensure the highest possible quality in high-volume, technically demanding components and finished rifles on the market. We are a CNC, ISO 9001 and AS 9100 certified advance manufacturing machining shop for the aerospace, medical, prosthetic, motorsports, semiconductor and outdoor recreation markets. Out technical ability coupled with hand finishing of every part, results in an unmatched fit, finish, and performance of our firearms. There is no better AR platform available to consumers that present a better balance or weight, performance and value.