John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan, The Plain Dealer

Nursing homes assistants among Ohio's most dangerous occupations

For the more than 75,000 residents of Ohio's 960 nursing homes, nursing assistants provide nearly all of the hands-on care. It is a job that comes with a serious cost: One of the highest reported rates of injury in Ohio and across the nation. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerFor the more than 75,000 residents of Ohio's 960 nursing homes, nursing assistants provide nearly all of the hands-on care. It is a job that comes with a serious cost: One of the highest reported rates of injury in Ohio and across the nation. Continue reading

Solutions to nursing home worker injuries seen as an investment

Working as a nurse's assistant is among the jobs with the highest reported rates of injury in Ohio and the country. But some nursing homes employ tools that make it safer for workers, driving down the number of injuries and workers' compensation costs. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerWorking as a nurse's assistant is among the jobs with the highest reported rates of injury in Ohio and the country. But some nursing homes employ tools that make it safer for workers, driving down the number of injuries and workers' compensation costs. Continue reading

Safety professionals say finding resources isn't always easy

Nursing home administrators, staff and advocates aren't always aware of all the resources that exist. If they are, sometimes they are hesitant to take advantage of them. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerNursing home administrators, staff and advocates aren't always aware of all the resources that exist. If they are, sometimes they are hesitant to take advantage of them. Continue reading

Survey reveals nursing home aides' struggles, injuries and pain

Eighty-four percent of the respondents to The Plain Dealer's online survey of nursing assistants said they always or frequently deal with short staffing. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerEighty-four percent of the respondents to The Plain Dealer's online survey of nursing assistants said they always or frequently deal with short staffing. Continue reading

Ohio nursing homes' low staffing called a 'crisis,' puts residents at risk John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan, The Plain Dealer

For residents of many nursing homes in Ohio, low staffing levels mean increased risk of falls, developing bedsores and urinary tract infections, and failure to obtain necessary treatment in emergencies, according to state records and published reports. For residents of many nursing homes in Ohio, low staffing levels mean increased risk of falls, developing bedsores and urinary tract infections, and failure to obtain necessary treatment in emergencies, according to state records and published reports. Continue reading

Lawmakers, advocates bicker over updated regulations for nursing homes

A group of 146 lawmakers has urged federal officials to re-evaluate revised regulations in nursing homes, saying some of the measures are excessive and financial burdens. Advocates for residents, however, say more regulation is needed, not less. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerA group of 146 lawmakers has urged federal officials to re-evaluate revised regulations in nursing homes, saying some of the measures are excessive and financial burdens. Advocates for residents, however, say more regulation is needed, not less. Continue reading

Advocates seek tighter rules in Ohio nursing homes after Florida deaths

The deaths at a Florida nursing home caused Florida Gov. Rick Scott to mandate nursing homes and assisted living centers obtain emergency generators that can provide power for up to four days. He gave the facilities 60 days to install the equipment. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerThe deaths at a Florida nursing home caused Florida Gov. Rick Scott to mandate nursing homes and assisted living centers obtain emergency generators that can provide power for up to four days. He gave the facilities 60 days to install the equipment. Continue reading

Rocky River nursing home offers $375,000 settlement involving overdose death

Normandy Manor is seeking to resolve the wrongful death suit filed in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court involving the estate of Susanne Lawrence, 83, of Westlake. Lawrence's family has accepted the offer and is seeking a judge's approval of it, according to court records. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerNormandy Manor is seeking to resolve the wrongful death suit filed in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court involving the estate of Susanne Lawrence, 83, of Westlake. Lawrence's family has accepted the offer and is seeking a judge's approval of it, according to court records. Continue reading

Ohio nursing homes fear losing $800 million in Medicaid funding in healthcare bill

Ohio nursing homes fear losing as much as $800 million a year in Medicaid funding in the proposed overhaul. The state's nursing home lobby said the cuts could come within the next few years if the plan clears legislative hurdles in Washington. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerOhio nursing homes fear losing as much as $800 million a year in Medicaid funding in the proposed overhaul. The state's nursing home lobby said the cuts could come within the next few years if the plan clears legislative hurdles in Washington. Continue reading

Ohio budget deal that cut nursing home care standards still a key issue

John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain Dealer



The 2011 Ohio budget included a little-known concession between lawmakers and the nursing home lobby. Legislators cut $360 million in Medicaid to nursing homes. At the same time, they reduced the minimum staffing standards at nursing homes, a move that has angered advocates.

Continue reading. The 2011 Ohio budget included a little-known concession between lawmakers and the nursing home lobby. Legislators cut $360 million in Medicaid to nursing homes. At the same time, they reduced the minimum staffing standards at nursing homes, a move that has angered advocates.

Top-rated nursing homes in Ohio's 88 counties

Using updated data released in April, The Plain Dealer below lists all of Ohio's above-average rated nursing homes as determined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Continue reading

Ohio nursing home inspectors fail to meet federal deadlines amid serious understaffing John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain Dealer

The officials charged with making sure the state's most vulnerable receive proper care -- is understaffed by at least a dozen employees. Continue reading

Interview about 40 percent of the nursing home's residents on their care, concerns and feelings on the nursing home.

Review the nursing home's staffing levels.

... Continue reading These are some of the things that the inspectors do during their examinations:

Tips for choosing a nursing home

CLEVELAND, Ohio - The Plain Dealer explores the quality of care in Ohio nursing homes. We looked at the federal government's statistical measure for rating care facilities, the importance of staffing and the millions of dollars in fines levied against nursing homes. We also offer consumers tips in finding a quality nursing home. It could be one of the most important decisions a family member makes. The decision is made even more difficult because of the long waiting lists at some of the best facilities. For those not on Medicaid, the out-of-pocket cost could reach $6,000 to $8,000 a month. Scroll down to follow our continuing coverage of this important issue.

John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan, The Plain Dealer

One of the hardest things for anyone to do is place a loved one in a nursing home. It is even more difficult when the decision must be made quickly. "It's not like you have a list of quality nursing homes sitting in a drawer,'' said Jeni Coyne, program director of Long-Term Care Ombudsman. She and other advocates offer these tips in choosing a nursing home: Continue reading

Ohio nursing homes among the nation's lowest rated in quality of care

Dozens of other residents in Ohio nursing homes have died over the past few years in incidents involving their care, a Plain Dealer review of inspection reports shows. A federal statistical measure, meanwhile, rates Ohio's nursing homes among the nation's lowest in quality of care. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerDozens of other residents in Ohio nursing homes have died over the past few years in incidents involving their care, a Plain Dealer review of inspection reports shows. A federal statistical measure, meanwhile, rates Ohio's nursing homes among the nation's lowest in quality of care. Continue reading

Federal rating system is flawed, nursing homes say

Critics of the federal star-rating classifications for nursing homes, Nursing Home Compare, say the system is flawed. They noted it penalizes homes for problems that may have occurred years ago, and say it punishes facilities that take in the most seriously ill residents. And that's unfair, according to representatives of local facilities. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerCritics of the federal star-rating classifications for nursing homes, Nursing Home Compare, say the system is flawed. They noted it penalizes homes for problems that may have occurred years ago, and say it punishes facilities that take in the most seriously ill residents. And that's unfair, according to representatives of local facilities. Continue reading

Abuse case, resident's death raise questions about nursing home care

One incapacitated resident at Park East Care and Rehab Centerwas tormented by an employee who admitted spraying cleaning solution into his eyes. Another resident died, after Park East's nursing staff apparently twice neglected to clean his breathing tube, according to state and federal reports. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerOne incapacitated resident at Park East Care and Rehab Centerwas tormented by an employee who admitted spraying cleaning solution into his eyes. Another resident died, after Park East's nursing staff apparently twice neglected to clean his breathing tube, according to state and federal reports. Continue reading



Inside stories about nursing home care in Ohio: A Critical Choice, Reporters' Notebook John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan, The Plain Dealer

Hundreds of readers and commenters, including former and current employees of nursing homes, have responded to the first installments of The Plain Dealer's investigation, "A Critical Choice,'' about the quality of care in many of Ohio's care facilities. Workers stressed how chronic understaffing made their jobs even more stressful.

Continue reading John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan, The Plain DealerHundreds of readers and commenters, including former and current employees of nursing homes, have responded to the first installments of The Plain Dealer's investigation, "A Critical Choice,'' about the quality of care in many of Ohio's care facilities. Workers stressed how chronic understaffing made their jobs even more stressful.

We'd like you to tell us about your experiences regarding nursing homes

As we examine best practices and problems within the nursing home industry, we seek your input, whether good or bad. Let us know. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerAs we examine best practices and problems within the nursing home industry, we seek your input, whether good or bad. Let us know. Continue reading

One-star nursing homes in Northeast Ohio

In a federal rating system, one star is the lowest; five stars is the highest for rating nursing homes. Learn what facilities earned one-star overall ratings in Cuyahoga, Lake, Geauga, Portage, Summit, Medina and Lorain counties. John Caniglia and Jo Ellen Corrigan , The Plain DealerIn a federal rating system, one star is the lowest; five stars is the highest for rating nursing homes. Learn what facilities earned one-star overall ratings in Cuyahoga, Lake, Geauga, Portage, Summit, Medina and Lorain counties. Continue reading

Searching for specific information on an Ohio nursing home? Try this form. Type in one category or a combination. When looking for a rating, type in a number between 1 and 5 or leave blank.

View the Nursing Home Compare site to search nursing homes across the country and for updates after March 2017.

As part of this series, The Plain Dealer would like to hear about your experiences with nursing homes. Contact reporters John Caniglia at jcaniglia@plaind.com and Jo Ellen Corrigan at jcorrigan@plaind.com.



