CLOSE SportsPulse: USA TODAY Sports' Martin Rogers travels to Las Vegas to see just how much the Golden Knights' improbable Stanley Cup run really means to the Vegas faithful. USA TODAY Sports

A general view of the Toshiba Plaza in Las Vegas before Game 1 of the Stanley Cup Final. (Photo: Jerry Lai, USA TODAY Sports)

LAS VEGAS — Only the weather is as hot as the expansion Vegas Golden Knights.

According to the Weather Channel, the temperature today in Las Vegas, the site of Game 2 of the Stanley Cup Final, will reach 100 degrees. No records are kept for such details, but it is believed to be the hottest temperature for a Stanley Cup Final game day.

“We are used to this,” Vegas winger Alex Tuch said. “In December, we walk into the rink and it’s 65-70 degrees. I was always thinking, I’m from upstate New York, where we would have 10 feet of snow by now, when does it ever get cold here?

Tuch said ice conditions may be a little softer — which means pucks bounce more — in warmer weather, but that’s true in many NHL rinks when hockey is played in June.

More: Ryan Reaves goes from Sidney Crosby's protector to Golden Knights' big-game scorer

More: Las Vegas needs more sports — and sports needs more Vegas

T-Mobile Arena hosted a Pink concert Saturday night and that also contributed to ice conditions in Game 1.

“The pucks were bouncing pretty good (Monday night),” Washington coach Barry Trotz said Tuesday. “Today the ice is so much better.”

Ice crew members fix the ice in the third period of Game 1 of the Stanley Cup Final. (Photo: Gary A. Vasquez, USA TODAY Sports)

The Weather Channel predicts it will be 98 degrees when the puck is dropped (5:15 PM local time, NBCSN) for Game 2. The Golden Knights lead the Washington Capitals 1-0 in the best-of-seven series.

“That’s why I live here,” Vegas defenseman Deryk Engelland said. “But once you get in the rink, it doesn’t matter where you are."

Compare the Vegas temperature to temperatures of the outdoor games that the NHL has played: In 2014, the Winter Classic between the Toronto Maple Leafs and Detroit Red Wings at Michigan Stadium in Ann Arbor had a game-time temperature of 13 with a wind chill temperature of -1.

“Hey, it’s June,” Tuch said. “No matter, where you are playing, it’s going to be above 60 for the most part.”

Thus far, warm weather has helped breed success for the Golden Knights. They are 13-3 in these playoffs, with one loss (April 28) at home.