By StoryStudio

Healdsburg, a small town in northern Sonoma County, California, has long been known for its charm. Nestled at the point where three of Sonoma’s major viticulture areas meet (the Russian River, Dry Creek and Alexander Valley), this quaint rural farming town of about 11,000 is surrounded by gorgeous vistas at every turn. It’s also home to one of the best little jazz festivals in the country.

Celebrating 20 years, the Healdsburg Jazz Festival (HJF) will roll out the red carpet this year on June 1 to kick off ten days of amazing music. Local guitarist Julian Lage and the genre-spanning Bill Frisell will open the festival at SHED in Healdsburg on June 1 (do we want to mention this is sold out), but they aren’t the only excellent act on the menu. This year, the HJF has dubbed the event the “Friends Reunite” festival, inviting many outstanding musicians who have played the festival over the past 20 years to return, to join in on what is sure to be the event of the season. Read on to hear about other can’t-miss concerts that will be headlining at Healdsburg.

TICKETS NOW ON SALE















Fred Hersch Trio – June 2

Fred Hersch, a pianist with panache, has been breaking ground in the jazz world for decades. A child prodigy, he worked with greats such as Art Farmer and Chet Baker, and has recorded over 50 albums in multiple band configurations since he debuted in 1985. In 2009, Fred linked up with bassist John Herbert and drummer Eric McPherson to perform as a trio. Together, they provide a performance that is truly electrifying to anyone in the audience.

The Art of the Trio – June 2

Together for more than 30 years, Trio da Paz has collectively and individually enhanced the sounds of dozens of American and Brazilian musicians across multiple genres. Know as Trio da Paz, Romero Lubambo on guitar and vocals, Nilson Matta on bass, and Duduka da Fonseca on drums, will be taking serenading concert goers on the Jackson Theater stage for a very special “Art of the Trio” night with special guests Anat Cohen and Claudia Villela and the Fred Hersch Trio.

Charles Lloyd and Friends – June 3

Acclaimed saxophonist and composer Charles Lloyd will take the stage with some old friends at the HJF over the opening weekend. Zakir Hussain, Eric Harland, Gerald Clayton, Harish Raghavan special guest Bill Frisell will be celebrating both the 20th anniversary of the festival and Charles’ 80th birthday. Festival-goers should expect some musical surprises, as each of these jazz dynamos will bring the heat for this legend’s birthday.

John Santos Sextet – June 5

An expert in Latin jazz, percussionist John Santos has been a long-time friend of the HJF, and will be taking the stage with a sextet to perform “A Puerto Rico con Amor” on the Healdsburg Plaza. This tribute to Puerto Rico is in honor of the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria in September. Part Puerto Rican himself, John will be bringing to the stage bandmate Pedro Pastrana, a cuatro guitar player, who was born and raised in Puerto Rico. The other musicians rounding out the sextet include some of the best in the bay: bassist Saul Sierra, pianist Marco Diaz, and guitarist and singer Jose Roberto Hernandez. This performance is the perfect way to pay respect to Puerto Rico – a place that has contributed so much to the world of music.

Celebrating Geri Allen – June 8

Last year, one of the best friends of the festival, pianist Geri Allen, passed away. Geri brought a lot of love with her each time she played the festival, and she leaves behind a legacy of excellent performances. She had planned to return to this year’s celebratory festival with saxophonist Ravi Coltrane, with whom she played the HJF in 2010 along with the late, great bassist Charlie Haden. This year, Ravi, along with bassist Dave Holland and drummer Terri Lynn Carrington, will celebrate Geri Allen at the Raven Performing Arts Theater.

George Cables Trio – June 9

The presence of pianist George Cables at HJF has always been felt. He’s been a fixture of the festival, both as a band leader, and as a player in others. No matter what is thrown at George, he effortlessly translates it into his personal language of joy He has done this over the decades for so many jazz greats, from Sonny Rollins to Dexter Gordon to Art Pepper, Freddie Hubbard, and Roy Haynes. Fans of George Cables likely are aware that he has had major surgery so we are particularly thrilled to know that he received the green light from his doctor to travel. His rhythm section of Victor Lewis and Essiet Essiet–a solid fleet-fingered post-bopper who has graced the bands of art Blakey, Kenny Barron, George Adams, and many more–is eager to accompany George because he will make them sound good, as he does with everyone.

Festival All-Stars – June 9

Several incomparable veterans of the HJF will close out the final Saturday at the Raven Performing Arts Theater. Saxophonist and composer Bobby Watson, trumpeter and band leader David Weiss, drum Master Billy Hart, and percussionist Babatunde Lea will collide in a creative collaboration that both fans and newcomers to HJF will love. They’ll be joined by guest Chico Freeman, jazz royalty who has been abroad for the past 15 years. He returns to the U.S. to fill the void that was left in his wake. Essiet Essiet will cover the bass for the performance, while Marc Carey will tickle the ivories as these festival favorites come together for a special, once in a lifetime show.

A Night in New Orleans – Finale Night

As is tradition at the Healdsburg Jazz Festival, finale night will include a tribute to the town that many say was the birthplace of jazz. Taking the stage direct from New Orleans is Dr. Michael White’s Original Liberty Jazz Band, a seven-piece group that plays jazz in the old tradition. The Original Liberty Jazz Band comprises clarinetist and band leader Dr. Michael White, pianist Steve Pistorius, trumpeter and singer Gregory Stafford, trombonist David Harris, bassist Mark Brooks, banjo-player Seva Venet, and drummer Herman Lebeaux. Audience members are sure to be out of their seats and dancing in the aisles to this band that strives to “…both preserve and expand the authentic New Orleans jazz tradition.”

These are just a handful of the masterful performers set to perform at the Healdsburg Jazz Festival. For tickets and more info, go to www.healdsburgjazzfestival.org.