My daughter and I attended a workshop for moms and their middle school daughters a couple of weekends ago. The goal was to keep us on the same team as we enter some complicated years, and the organizer, Michelle Icard, led us through various exercises toward that end.

At one point, she asked the moms to whisper in our daughters’ ears the name of someone who made our lives miserable during middle school. None of us hesitated. Then she asked us to whisper the names of someone who made our lives wonderful during middle school. Again, no hesitation.

Her point, she told us, was twofold. One, to remind us what a lasting impact middle school can have. Two, to show our daughters that they hold an incredible amount of power right now — power to lift someone up or tear someone down, in ways that person will remember for two, three, four decades to come.

I haven’t stopped thinking about that exercise since we left. It’s not enough to empower our girls — or our boys — if we don’t also nudge them to use that power for good. I don’t mean service projects, although those can be lovely. I mean an entire approach to life that is fearless but fair-minded; joyful but just; guided by principles that won’t be compromised in pursuit of a high perch in the social pecking order. I’ve been on the lookout for examples of people doing just that so I can show my daughter.

Abby Wambach, the soccer champion and activist for pay equity and LGBTQ rights, delivered the keynote address to the Class of 2018 at Barnard’s 126th commencement. Abby Wambach, the soccer champion and activist for pay equity and LGBTQ rights, delivered the keynote address to the Class of 2018 at Barnard’s 126th commencement. SEE MORE VIDEOS

Abby Wambach’s graduation speech, delivered at Barnard College last week, is everything I’ve been looking for. I’ve read a lot of graduation speeches (I’m kind of a sucker for them), and this is among the very best.

Wambach, 37, is a two-time Olympic gold medalist in soccer and Women’s World Cup champion.

She opened her speech with an anecdote about an awards ceremony she attended shortly after retiring from soccer. She was honored alongside Peyton Manning and Kobe Bryant, and she talked about basking in their fame, feeling she’d truly arrived.

Until she exited the stage and realized they were walking away from their sports with gigantic bank accounts and she was … not.

“And it hit me that I’d spent most of my time during my career the same way I'd spent my time on that ESPYs stage,” she said. “Just feeling grateful. Grateful to be one of the only women to have a seat at the table. I was so grateful to receive any respect at all for myself that I often missed opportunities to demand equality for all of us.”

We teach little girls, she said, to be Little Red Riding Hood — stay on the path, don’t talk to anybody, keep your head down.

“I stayed on the path out of fear, not of being eaten by a wolf, but of being cut, being benched, losing my paycheck,” she said. “If I could go back and tell my younger self one thing it would be this: ‘Abby, you were never Little Red Riding Hood; you were always the wolf.’”

She talked about wolves being reintroduced to Yellowstone National Park in 1995 after a decadeslong absence, and the way their presence restored the park’s ecosystem in huge, critical ways — thinning the deer population, making way for birds and beavers and otters and plant regeneration that stabilized riverbanks.

“The wolves, who were feared as a threat to the system, turned out to be its salvation.”

Be the wolves, she told those graduates.

“Our landscape is overrun with archaic ways of thinking about women, about people of color, about the ‘other,’ about the rich and the poor, about the powerful and the powerless — and these ways of thinking are destroying us.

“We are the ones we’ve been waiting for.

“We will not Little Red Riding Hood our way through life. We will unite our pack, storm the valley together and change the whole bloody system.”

She offered four rules and how to live by them: Make failure your fuel. Lead from the bench. Champion each other. Demand the ball. Each one left me cheering. (You’ve really got to read the whole speech.)

But my favorite passage was this:

“You will not always be the goal scorer. And when you are not — you better be rushing toward her.

“Women must champion each other. This can be difficult for us. Women have been pitted against each other since the beginning of time for that one seat at the table. Scarcity has been planted inside of us and among us. This scarcity is not our fault. But it is our problem. And it is within our power to create abundance for women where scarcity used to live.

“As you go out into the world: Amplify each other’s voices. Demand seats for women, people of color and all marginalized people at every table where decisions are made. Call out each other’s wins, and just like we do on the field claim the success of one woman as a collective success for all women.”

It’s advice that works for middle school, as well as it works for college graduates, as well as it works for midlife. It’s beautiful and, best of all, it’s doable.

“Joy. Success. Power,” Wambach said. “These are not pies where a bigger slice for her means a smaller slice for you. These are infinite. In any revolution, the way to make something true starts with believing it is. Let’s claim infinite joy, success and power — together.”

hstevens@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @heidistevens13

Related: 'Love Warrior' author Glennon Doyle Melton weds soccer star Abby Wambach »

The secret, complex world of boys' friendships, and how parents can navigate it »

It's perfection season (SATs! GPAs! Promposals!), and here's what our kids need to hear »

Steel and glass were, at one point, shiny, new toys (pun intended) in the world of architecture. But as the Earth's population grows and our cities get denser, more designers are choosing to incorporate plants and sustainable elements. In some cases, to the extreme. Here is a look at 10 of the world's coolest city spaces, designed with greenery in mind. (Darcel Rockett) (Darcel Rockett)