CLOSE ABC canceled its hit revival of 'Roseanne' after Roseanne Barr tweeted controversial remarks, which many saw as racist. USA TODAY

Sara Gilbert as Darlene and Roseanne Barr as Roseanne on "Roseanne." (Photo: Greg Gayne/ABC)

It was a fast-moving online controversy that, for once, got the fast-moving response that the awful news deserved.

ABC canned "Roseanne" on Tuesday, just hours after controversy erupted over a tweet by sitcom star Roseanne Barr over a vile piece of abbreviated Twitter hate that she claimed was a joke.

Responding to a tweet about Valerie Jarrett, a former White House adviser to President Barack Obama who happens to be African-American, Barr posted this: "muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj."

The tweet was deleted, this was the original comment on Valeria Jarrett. pic.twitter.com/Ydi5pdVqUw — andrew kaczynski🤔 (@KFILE) May 29, 2018

Once the Twitterverse noticed the racist comment – not racially tinged or racially charged, as early press reports cautiously characterized it – the backlash unfolded at hyper speed.

Within what seemed like seconds (but actually took a couple of hours), the tweet was deleted and Barr had written that she was sorry.

"I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans," she wrote. "I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me-my joke was in bad taste."

But before this, Barr had replied cavalierly to a CNN reporter that it was just "a joke."

I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans. I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me-my joke was in bad taste. — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) May 29, 2018

As events whirled rapidly, I wondered what ABC would do. I knew what I wanted to see: a firm, immediate rebuke to a celebrity whose rebooted comedy was bringing huge ratings and the accompanying profits to the broadcast network.

I wanted ABC to cancel "Roseanne," but I wasn't holding my breath. I feared that the network would sit back and see if things would calm down or, at the very least, hold lengthy p.r. crisis meetings for hours or days.

After all, before this morning, "Roseanne" was considered a surefire cash cow. The show's huge Nielsen numbers have been the talk of the TV industry for months. It had been renewed for a second season, and its success likely fueled Tim Allen's return to prime-time with Fox's revival of "Last Man Standing."

Read more:

ABC was aware of criticism of Barr's social media trafficking in pro-Trump conspiracy theories. The network basically was hoping that her loose-cannon tendencies on Twitter would be ignored or go away.

Yet even when Tuesday brought a crisis point to ABC, swift corporate action seemed like a pipe dream. America 2018 is a place where more people, are taking a public stand against issues like immigration, gun control and racism, while too many government and corporate leaders are still staring at stock market numbers and thinking, hey, maybe things aren't that bad.

I will not be returning to @RoseanneOnABC. — Wanda Sykes (@iamwandasykes) May 29, 2018

Well, they are, and we need to talk about why this sort of thing keeps recurring, this casual brutality with words, this online echo chamber of vile dehumanization. It can be seen in Barr's post, in an ocean of other ugly social media chatter, and in video moments like the New York lawyer threatening to phone ICE because some restaurant workers were speaking Spanish.

In no universe is Barr's comment simply a joke. It's particularly shocking coming from a prime-time comedian whose job is to enter mainstream America's homes each week and help make the real world a little less depressing.

Barr's Tuesday post on Jarrett was part of a Twitter rant during which she also lashed out at Chelsea Clinton, tweeting "Chelsea Soros Clinton" and falsely claiming that Clinton is married to a nephew of the billionaire donor to liberal causes.

But when Barr compared Jarrett to "Planet of the Apes," she hit a breaking point that deserved to be clearly delineated and formally rebuked. And ABC actually did it.

Maybe I'm being too optimistic. Maybe ABC's statement was about brand protection as much as it was moral outrage. Perhaps any company would have done the same thing, after assessing that Barr deleted not just her tweet, but the financial future of "Roseanne."

But maybe something else was at work here, something more like enough is enough.

Earlier this morning, it seemed like a sad irony that Barr posted her comment on the same day that Starbucks was closing its stores for racial bias training. Plenty of commentators and comedians had mocked the coffee chain for trying to solve racism in an afternoon. But at least it was a business taking a first step.

By early afternoon, ABC demonstrated corporate America doesn't have to hedge its bets where racism is concerned. It can speak out, say no, wave goodbye, and do so while hitting the gas instead of waiting to take the temperature of the room. Talent agency ICM Partners' decision to drop Barr as a client, coming after ABC's axing, reinforces this idea.

I'm hoping this is the beginning of more corporate willingness to fight hate by doing something significant. I'm not holding my breath. But I'll keep refreshing my feed to see if it happens.

Contact Detroit Free Press writer Julie Hinds: 313-222-6427 or jhinds@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LHUhfm