Elbowing children in the stomach. Lifting a child by the neck. Kicking a child in the ribs.

These are all things the American Civil Liberties Union says immigrant children who crossed the border alone experienced while in custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

The details were in a report released May 23 by the ACLU’s Border Litigation Project in partnership with the University of Chicago Law School.

The ACLU examined 30,000 pages of documents that the group alleges revealed hundreds of incidents of abuse. The complaints were from 2009 to 2014 and recounted experiences in temporary detention centers along the border, from California through Texas, where children are held after being apprehended and before being transferred to longer-term centers or deported.

Claudia Flores, director of the University of Chicago’s International Human Rights Clinic, said three law students pored through hundreds of pages of documents. The records detailed abuse allegations and complaint resolutions, including sexual abuse and physical abuse, like punching, kicking and Tasers being used against kids.

“Many of the doucments included repeated abuse,” Flores said.

The group accused federal officials of failing to investigate and follow up on allegations of abuse and neglect of immigrant children.

Customs and Border Protection spokesperson Daniel Hetlage said in a statement that the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General completed an investigation, including 57 unannounced visits to 41 different locations, and found that the claims were unsubstantiated.

“The false accusations made by the ACLU against the previous administration are unfounded and baseless,” he said.

Many children cross the border alone, often fleeing violence in Central America and sometimes hoping to join parents already in the U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration has made reducing the flow of immigrants a priority, and he specifically has targeted this trend. Trump said last week that unaccompanied children might include gang members.

Thousands of children traveling alone land in Illinois, where they are placed in juvenile detention centers, called shelters, while they await court decisions on whether they can be released to a relative, will remain in custody or will be deported.

In the report, a 16-year-old boy said an agent threw him down and “smashed his head into the ground with his boot.” Another complaint described a child run over by a Border Protection truck, noting “crushing damage” and “significant trauma” to the child’s leg. And a 16-year-old girl said that during a search, officials “forcefully spread her legs and touched her private parts so hard that she screamed.”

Michael Gosch, co-director of the Viator House of Hospitality, which houses young immigrant men, said many older teens there have told him of experiences similar to those recounted in the ACLU report.

One young man told Gosch he crossed the border with cuts and scrapes on his feet and legs that had become infected. He was not provided medication or help, Gosch said. Others told him of sleeping in cold rooms with aluminum wraps as blankets.

He said that by the time the boys get to the border, many have been robbed, threatened or have seen others die.

“Then when they get to the United States, they think they’re going to be welcomed, they’re going to be treated well, and they experience this treatment and think, ‘Now I’m in jail,’” he said. “It just adds to their trauma.”

The allegations of abuse detailed in the report occurred during the Obama administration. Astrid Dominguez, director of the ACLU’s Border Rights Center, said she is worried that children’s experiences might worsen under the Trump administration.

“It’s unacceptable that there are no mechanisms in place to shed light on CBP’s abuses and ensure accountability,” she said.

Flores said the law students found the documents hard to read.

“There were so many complaints with so many horrible descriptions,” she said. “These are kids who are alone.”

abowen@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @byalisonbowen

Immigrant children who cross border alone find themselves in Chicago shelters »

Refugees escape violence and war, but anguish remains »

Half of kids experience trauma, new report says. Chicago teacher and Diana Rauner offer ideas on how to help. »

Steel and glass were, at one point, shiny, new toys (pun intended) in the world of architecture. But as the Earth's population grows and our cities get denser, more designers are choosing to incorporate plants and sustainable elements. In some cases, to the extreme. Here is a look at 10 of the world's coolest city spaces, designed with greenery in mind. (Darcel Rockett) (Darcel Rockett)