acura

How 'God's Plan' worked out for Drake and Acura May 28 Author: Vince Bond Jr. The big giveaway in rapper Drake's heart-tugging video was going to be a Honda Civic.



Acura's story once lost its way, Ikeda says May 26 Author: Vince Bond Jr. In a quest to establish itself in a world that grew to include Lexus and Infiniti, the chief of Acura says the brand went down a "wandering road" where it lost touch with its roots.



Texas dealership Mac Churchill Acura files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy May 25 Author: Anisa Jibrell A dispute between majority and minority owners over the sale of Mac Churchill Acura of Fort Worth, Texas, has led to the store filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.



HONDA: Slow sales for several key vehicles May 1 Author: Vince Bond Jr. American Honda's U.S. sales fell 9.2 percent in April due to the slower performance of key models such as the Accord, Civic and CR-V.



FAST COMPANY April 14 The competition to build the world's fastest road-legal car is something of a friendly rivalry among Bugatti, Koenigsegg and Hennessey Special Vehicles -- but a rivalry nonetheless.



HONDA: Trucks, Civic continue to provide lift April 3 Author: Vince Bond Jr. American Honda posted a 3.8 percent rise in March U.S. sales behind strong truck demand and an assist from the Civic.



Redesigned RDX crossover feeds optimism at Acura April 2 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Brand chief Jon Ikeda said the redesigned crossover can be marketed "from an emotional perspective," not based on "value and deals."



Acura RDX has touchpad instead of touch screen April 2 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Acura says the interface will make vehicle controls more intuitive and easier to use while driving.



New Acura RDX crossover creates buzz among dealers March 24 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Acura's Jon Ikeda hopes to see a "big transition" in how consumers think and feel about the brand in 2018. The brand's completely reworked 2019 RDX crossover will be a huge driver of that potential shift.



AutoNews Now: RDX launch critical, Acura dealers told March 24 At NADA: RDX launch must succeed, Acura dealers told; Nissan vows to ease up; Jeep pickup due date; Sonic resists upgrade demands; BMW skipping Detroit; Time Dealer of the Year.



Acura dealers expect 'huge' success with new RDX March 21 Author: Vince Bond Jr. The revamped RDX will hit the market as the first Acura fully developed under an edgier design direction first relayed with the Precision Concept at the 2016 Detroit auto show.

