The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) is set to invest AED165bn ($45bn) alongside partners over a five-year period in order to expand its downstream operations in the UAE.

The latest investment is expected to support ADNOC’s downstream strategy and significantly expand its refining and petrochemical operations at Ruwais.

Using its existing strengths and competitive advantages of the Ruwais industrial complex, the company intends to develop an advanced integrated refining and petrochemicals facility.



ADNOC Group CEO Dr Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber said: “Given the projected increase in demand for petrochemicals and higher value refined products, we are repositioning ADNOC to become a leading global downstream player.

“We will invest significantly in Ruwais and open up attractive partnership and co-investment opportunities along our extended value chain to create a powerful new downstream engine and springboard for growth that will benefit our country, our company and our partners.”

“The company plans to expand Ruwais Industrial Complex’s refining capacity by more than 65% or 600,000bpd by 2025.”

ADNOC intends to increase its volume of high-value downstream products and secure better access to growth markets around the world through a combined programme of strategic partnerships and investments.

Furthermore, the company aims to create a manufacturing ecosystem in Ruwais in order to stimulate in-country value creation, private sector growth, and employment.

ADNOC’s downstream investment is said to be part of its 2030 strategy of a profitable upstream, more valuable downstream and sustainable and economic gas supply.

The company plans to expand Ruwais Industrial Complex’s refining capacity by more than 65% or 600,000bpd by 2025.

This process has reached the advanced stage and will see an addition of a third, new refinery, creating a total capacity of 1.5 million barrels per day.

Additionally, the company plans to develop a new manufacturing ecosystem in Ruwais by creating new petrochemical derivatives and conversion park on a 6km² area adjacent to the larger Ruwais complex.