For as long as Anne Abueva, 40, can remember, making art has been a source of serenity. Known for her vibrant abstract paintings, Abueva still vividly recalls the sense of relief she felt years ago when walking she would walk through the doors of her high school art classroom after an especially trying day.

“I would spend every free minute in there,” Abueva says. “I’ve always felt sort of at peace in an art studio.”

After dabbling in sales, carpentry and most recently interior design, Abueva turned to art again in 2014, after the deaths of her and her husband, Steve’s, newborn twin sons.

“Losing them has changed everything,” she says. "There are a lot of women in my position who are able to return to their lives, but for me, it can be kind of triggering.”

During one interior design consultation, for instance, Abueva was tasked with measuring a nursery for twin boys. Another client wrote excitedly about her pregnancy on the family message board. Even the mere sight of a double stroller was enough to bring her grief to the surface.

So Abueva left her design career behind, put together a studio in the basement of the couple’s contemporary brick-faced Bucktown home and began to paint.

Although her recent work features bold lines and strong colors, Abueva’s first pieces were far more stark, layering black, which represented her depression, and white, which symbolized love. She re-created the same piece on the same canvas so many times that she lost count. But eventually, as she moved through the phases of grief, new emotions made her reach for new colors.

“I started grasping the idea that I was letting go of some of these feelings,” Abueva says.

Forgoing expensive paintbrushes, Abueva relies instead on drywall trowels, small paint rollers and brushes that are available at any hardware store. She often works crouched down on the concrete floor, stretching her back and arms to create long sweeping brushstrokes on her larger canvases. The process, she says, is intensely physical.

Paul Beaty / Chicago Tribune Abueva's process is intensely physical. She often crouches on the floor to create sweeping brushstrokes on large canvases. Abueva's process is intensely physical. She often crouches on the floor to create sweeping brushstrokes on large canvases. (Paul Beaty / Chicago Tribune)

“When I’m done, I’m exhausted, and my back hurts, but I feel more clear.” says Abueva, who started selling her abstract work in earnest in 2016. “Making art is a way for me to process grief and anger, but also joy, gratitude.”

If a painting isn’t coming together, she might upload its image into a software tool that enables her to draw on the screen and experiment with possible shapes and colors before applying them to a canvas. Or, in an attempt to gain distance and perspective, sometimes she’ll simply step away to attend a boxing or yoga class. Every now and again, she just rolls the dice and forges ahead with putting paint to canvas. “If you don’t like it,” she says, “you can always paint over it, or just tear it off the stretcher and start a new one.”

While she was reluctant, at first, to publicly share her story, Abueva has begun to open up about her loss and the impact it has had on her life and work. The response, she says, has been gratifying. “People want me to be honest, which is so simple, but it’s huge,” she explains. “I’d rather be my whole, authentic self, and painting gives me that freedom.”

Abueva’s work is available at Studio 6F (www.studio6f.com), Serena & Lily (www.serenaandlily.com) and by commission (www.anneabueva.com).

Tate Gunnerson is a freelancer.

Meet the Maker is a new series profiling Chicago artists and artisans.

Related: At Chicago entrepreneur's first home, every piece has a story »

New house, vintage style: The perfectly imperfect look »

Antiques for millennials: You want old stuff — you just don't know it yet »

Steel and glass were, at one point, shiny, new toys (pun intended) in the world of architecture. But as the Earth's population grows and our cities get denser, more designers are choosing to incorporate plants and sustainable elements. In some cases, to the extreme. Here is a look at 10 of the world's coolest city spaces, designed with greenery in mind. (Darcel Rockett) (Darcel Rockett)