Dutch company AkzoNobel has started production at its new powder coatings plant in Changzhou, China.

Located at an existing site, the production facility is developed with an investment of around €40m.

The company expects the plant to further boost its position in the global powder coatings market.



The Changzhou facility will supply a range of Interpon and Resicoat products to meet increasing demand for more sustainable coatings solutions in key markets such as the automotive, architectural and general industrial sectors.

AkzoNobel chief operating officer Ruud Joosten said: “China is a high-priority region for us and the new facility is part of ongoing plans to optimise our production and investment strategy, based on increasing demand.

“Our passion for paint will continue to be the driving force for us to provide best-in-class sustainable solutions while expanding our footprint globally to drive growth.”

“The new facility is part of ongoing plans to optimise our production and investment strategy, based on increasing demand.”

Additionally, the Changzhou facility will serve customers in the entire eastern region of China with products for automotive, furniture, IT, functional, domestic appliances, architecture, and general industrial applications.

The new Changzhou plant uses advanced technology, including a vacuum drum wastewater reuse system to achieve full recycling of wastewater and zero emissions.

AkzoNobel powder coatings business director Added Daniela Vlad said: “We continue to provide dynamic colors and finishes and the most sustainable solutions for our customers in China and around the world.

“This new plant will help us develop Changzhou into a hub for the powder coatings industry in China and create more value for customers by providing customised solutions.”

AkzoNobel’s powder coatings have been used on buildings and landmarks around the world such as La Sagrada Família in Spain, the Shard in London; the Water Cube in Beijing, and the Flame Towers in Azerbaijan.