Buy Photo People walked with umbrellas around 11 am Thursday, September 29, 2016 as many were late for work due to heavy rain that snarled roadways all over the metro Detroit area. (Photo: Jessica J. Trevino, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

After another hot and humid day in southeast Michigan, a marginal risk for severe weather will move in Wednesday, including potential threats of tornado, lightning, damaging winds, and heavy rainfall, according to the National Weather Service in White Lake.

Remnants of sub tropical storm Alberto, headed north after hitting Florida's Gulf Coast, could cause the severe conditions across portions of southeast Michigan on Wednesday afternoon and evening, according to the White Lake office. A higher risk for severe weather will be along and south of the I-96 corridor.

Temperatures in the Detroit metro area are expected to be cooler Tuesday with a high of 88 degrees compared to Monday's high of 94, one degree short of tying the record high of 95 degrees set on May 28, 2012, according to the weather service's climatological report. The normal temperature in Detroit for May 28 is 74 degrees, according to the weather service.

The White Lake office forecasting a high of 84 in Detroit on Wednesday.

May in southeast Michigan has been five degrees warmer than the historic average mean of 59.7 degrees for the month, according to Jordan Dale, a meteorologist at the White Lake office.

But Dale said overall, the spring — the months of March, April, and May — has seen below-average temperatures, as March and April recorded averages of 35.4 and 43 degrees, respectively — each below their historic means of 37.2 and 49.2 degrees.

The latest outlook for summer — June, July, and August — is expected to be slightly above average, according to Dale, who said the warmest month is July, which has a historic average high and low of 83 and 64.

"That would indicate the potential for, you know, slightly more heat waves than we've seen in a typical summer," Dale said, adding that we can expect periods where temperatures are closer to average or below average.

Alberto's remnants are also expected to reach northern Michigan on Wednesday, bringing showers and thunderstorms to the region, according to the National Weather Service in Gaylord.

"This will bring some much needed rain to our neck of the woods Wednesday afternoon into Thursday, as the last couple weeks have been rather dry across much of the area," the Gaylord office wrote online.

Contact Hasan Dudar at hdudar@freepress.com.

Read more:

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IWKsg1