alfa romeo

Marchionne plans big shift in FCA's vehicle assembly in Italy, report says May 18 FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne is planning a sweeping transformation of production in Italy that will see FCA abandon the manufacture of the Punto and MiTo small cars in favor of upscale models, Bloomberg reported.



John Cena fights to dismiss Ford's lawsuit against him for flipping his 2017 GT supercar Feb. 15 Author: Michael Martinez Professional wrestler-turned-actor John Cena filed a motion to dismiss Ford's lawsuit against him for flipping his 2017 Liquid Blue GT supercar.



Kuniskis' job: Fan excitement for Alfa, Maserati Feb. 11 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Tim Kuniskis, the car-crazy U.S. sales guy handed control of FCA's celebrated Alfa Romeo and Maserati brands, knows something about creating excitement.



FCA shifts Kuniskis to Alfa, Maserati; Bigland role reduced Feb. 5 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Fiat Chrysler Automobiles named Tim Kuniskis to be the new global head for Maserati and Alfa Romeo while trimming some responsibilities from the brands' multitasking former boss, U.S. sales chief Reid Bigland.



FCA: Fleet decline triggers 13% drop; Jeep gains 2.2% Feb. 1 Author: Larry P. Vellequette FCA US recorded a 17th consecutive month of declining sales in January, falling 13 percent to 132,803 vehicles.



Alfa Romeo losses shrinking, will miss profit target this year Jan. 26 Alfa Romeo will miss its target to make a profit this year, although its losses are shrinking, Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne told analysts.



Alfa Romeo's 2017 production surged 62% on new models Jan. 10 Alfa Romeo increased production by 62 percent last year, boosted by sales of the Giulia sedan and Stelvio crossover, but the brand still fell short of FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne's expectations.



Detroit auto show preview: Acura to Ford Jan. 8 A roundup of brands, from Acura to Ford, that will unveil new product at the Detroit auto show.



Ford sues pro wrestler John Cena for reselling his 2017 GT supercar Dec. 1, 2017 Author: Michael Martinez Ford is laying the legal smack down on WWE star John Cena. The automaker filed a lawsuit against the pro wrestler after Cena resold his 2017 Liquid Blue Ford GT less than a month after owning it.



Kia, Alfa finalists for North American vehicles of the year for first time Nov. 29, 2017 Author: Nick Bunkley Kia and Alfa Romeo have for the first time ever been named finalists for the North American Car, Truck and Utility of the Year Awards. The nine vehicles still in the running for the 2018 awards also include two chances for Honda to extend its winning streak to a third consecutive year.



FCA: Every brand but Alfa Romeo declines Nov. 7, 2017 Author: Larry P. Vellequette FCA US continued its down streak into its 14th month in October, as sales fell 13 percent to 153,373 vehicles.

