By StoryStudio

The numbers are staggering in California and across the U.S. Alzheimer’s is the third most common cause of death in the state and the sixth leading cause of death in the nation. However, as prevalent as this disease may be, there remains a stigma that often prevents people from seeking early diagnosis and medical benefits, making future plans and developing a support system. This bias also dissuades potential participation in critical clinical trials.

The Alzheimer’s Association is determined to eliminate this stigma so that present and future generations can benefit from research to improve lives and increase understanding of this deadly disease. The world’s largest voluntary health organization in Alzheimer’s care, support and research, the Association “remains committed to accelerating progress of new treatments, preventions and ultimately, a cure.” The association is the third largest funder of Alzheimer’s research, behind only the Chinese and U.S. governments.

Get Involved We need your help in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease.



Even with a nationwide network and fundraising efforts, people who are living with Alzheimer’s and dementia continue to face discrimination, according to a recent University of Pennsylvania study that measured levels of stigma attached to the disease. Most people in the study assumed someone with mild-stage Alzheimer’s and dementia would not remember most recent events, would be discriminated against at work, and would be excluded from making their own medical decisions.

Of equal concern, more than half of the participants assumed they would have their health insurance limited because of a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s in their medical record. These concerns prevent people, even if they show little or no signs of the disease, from participating in preventative research trials. The UPenn study implies that more public education and policies are necessary before the stigma of employment performance and insurance discrimination will change.

Pam Montana understands this stigma well, having been diagnosed with early stage Alzheimer’s, a condition she believes affects many other people who remain too scared to get tested. An extremely active volunteer at the Alzheimer’s Association, Pam has become a spokesperson for acknowledging the disease. “This is what Alzheimer’s looks like,” Pam says, “It is not your grandmother in a wheelchair. What I plan on saying to congress or whomever I meet with is to pay attention to the laws and regulations right now. For me, it’s really about awareness.”

Pam says that in today’s world, everyone knows how to deal with cancer, though in previous generations, getting support and treatments for cancer was as much a mystery as Alzheimer’s is today. “Everyone needs to know how to deal with Alzheimer’s, how to get support for Alzheimer’s,” she concludes.

Pam speaks to the frustration of being a relatively young person with early onset Alzheimer’s—not just the inability to subtract two-digit numbers, but the fact that, because she “looks good,” people are incredulous when they learn that she has the disease. Pam maintains a blog (www.myjourneywithalzheimers.com) in which she expresses her frustrations, such as failing online cognitive tests, and also her daily joys, like attending her five-year-old grandson’s class play.

Clearly, Pam has overcome the stigma attached with Alzheimer’s, but she remains a rare outspoken advocate for awareness as someone who is living with the disease. The Alzheimer’s Association needs more people like Pam to participate in their TrialMatch program, which matches clinical trial participants with studies they may qualify for. Participants in the trial include patients with dementia, those at risk for developing it, caregivers and healthy volunteers.





There are several other ways to help defeat the stigma associated with Alzheimer’s and dementia. Participate in the 2018 Longest Day on June 21. On this day, the longest day of the year, people gather to support those affected by the disease. June is also Alzheimer’s and Brain Awareness Month, when many Alzheimer’s Association chapters hold events.

You can also sign up early as an individual or team for this fall’s Walk to End Alzheimer’s in your town. And, of course, anytime is the right time to donate to fund research and help end this devastating disease. Your local Alzheimer’s Association office has all the information you need to become a volunteer and help eliminate the stigma surrounding Alzheimer’s and dementia in our society.