By StoryStudio

Last year, Alexandra Castillo Weisberger attended a birthday party for her 99-year-old grandmother. Alexandra’s grandmother, who has dementia, was having a great time with her large Cuban-American family that is, until it was time to eat. At that point, “Grandma looked at the plate in front of her and said, ‘That’s not my food.’”

Her grandson attempted unsuccessfully to convince her otherwise, which is when Alexandra stepped in. A Family Services Manager at the Alzheimer’s Association’s Greater Sacramento office, Alexandra’s simple strategy saved the day.

“I picked up the plate. I said, ‘I’m going to find your food. I don’t think this is your food.’ I walked out of the room, counted to five and brought the same plate back. I smiled, put it down and said, ‘Here’s your food.’ Grandma thanked me and ate the meal.”

“Grandma’s Birthday Party,” as described by Michelle Johnston in her Alzheimer’s Caregiving Blog post, illustrates the importance of communication with someone who has Alzheimer’s or another form of dementia. Alexandra offers a wide-ranging set of tips, including non-confrontation and claiming blame. She also suggests resetting the entire dynamic by physically leaving the conversation for a few minutes, as she did at the party.

She also offers more nuanced advice such as “joining the subject’s reality” to envision what he or she may be experiencing. Imagine how you’d feel, Alexandra observes, if someone repeatedly said, “You just asked me that five minutes ago.”Another tip: identify “the underlying emotion in what is being communicated” and attend to that emotion.

Get Involved We need your help in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease.



“Don’t exclude the individual with dementia from the conversation,” Alexandra reminds us. “Try to reduce other distractions in the environment. Maintain eye contact. Give him or her extra time to respond. Take time to listen.”

Engaging the senses such as touch and taste, physical contact, and familiar stimulants such as favorite music, may also help.

The Alzheimer’s Association website offers many other useful communication tips and strategies for speaking with someone in the early, middle, and late stages of the disease.

It’s likely that most of us will eventually interact with someone who has Alzheimer’s or another form of dementia. The incidence of Alzheimer’s disease continues to increase in California, across the nation, and throughout the world. It’s the sixth leading cause of death in America and the third leading cause of death in California. When faced with a loved one diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease or any other form of dementia, knowing how to communicate can be a challenge.

Though the disease affects each person differently, caretakers and friends often face graduated challenges in patience, understanding, and listening skills. The Alzheimer’s Association’s resources identify both what to expect and how to manage these changes.

The Association maintains the Caregiving Blog for those who need support and understanding. It offers practical tips like those offered by Alexandra as well as a vital reminder to caregivers: “Be kind to yourself.”

The Association depends upon public support to maintain this information and for advancing research towards a treatment. A major annual fundraiser, the Walk to End Alzheimer’s, will take place this fall in 18 different Northern California and Northern Nevada communities, from San Francisco to Reno, Monterey to Redding. More than 150 participants and 88 teams have already signed up for this major autumn event. You can sign up now too as an individual or team

And, of course, any time is the right time to donate to care and support of families, and advancing research to help end this challenging disease. Your local Alzheimer’s Association office has all the information you need to become a volunteer and help eliminate the heartache of Alzheimer’s and dementia in Northern California, Northern Nevada, and elsewhere in the world.