USA – -(Ammoland.com)- “AMA pushes ‘unprecedented' gun control agenda as congress dithers,” a talking-point parroting opinion piece in Forbes acclaims. “The AMA’s policy-making House of Delegates will consider nearly a dozen proposals on gun control and public safety.”

Left unstated is how they have determined that their proposals will enhance public safety, rather than make things more dangerous. When dealing with the American Medical Association’s positions on guns, it’s not like you can trust what you’re getting is knowledge as opposed to political agenda advancement.

“Action at the AMA meeting, which runs June 9-13 in Chicago, will put the group’s considerable lobbying clout behind legislation heading into November’s mid-term elections when gun control measures are expected to be key issues,” the press release masquerading as journalism admits.

So yeah, we’re talking pure politics.

And what is it they will be strong-arming their delegates to demand?

Banning the sale of bump stocks — because they can function just like dangerous shoelaces.

Ending private sales – like they do in Maryland.

Turning many active duty servicemen, decorated veterans and members of the Constitutional militia into prohibited persons.

Who do these people think they are? Dick’s Sporting Goods? Fuddwriters?

AMA meddling to undermine a fundamental right is nothing short of malpractice.

If your car was acting up, would you consult your doctor and follow his advice? Just because they have an “MD” after their names doesn’t mean they’re qualified to dispense advice on matters outside specialties for which they’ve been certified. That's a point you can prove to yourself if one ever presumes to advise you on “gun safety.” Just present him or her with this form.

So much for “First do no harm.”

There’s a reason why it’s appropriate to call such agenda-driven meddlers “gunquacks.”

Fortunately, the medical profession also includes healers who understand the personal and societal value of an armed citizenry. If you’re not familiar with Doctors for Responsible Gun Ownership, check out their website for everything from position papers supporting the right to keep and bear arms to networking to “connect patients with gun-friendly providers.”

Then, if you ever run across a well-meaning but misinformed physician, give him a referral and tell him they’ve got a prescription that will cure him.

About David Codrea:

David Codrea is the winner of multiple journalist awards for investigating / defending the RKBA and a long-time gun owner rights advocate who defiantly challenges the folly of citizen disarmament.

In addition to being a field editor/columnist at GUNS Magazine and associate editor for Oath Keepers, he blogs at “The War on Guns: Notes from the Resistance,” and posts on Twitter: @dcodrea and Facebook.