CLOSE The star of "Roseanne" blamed her racist tweet at a former Obama White House aide on Ambien. But Twitter wasn't having it. USA TODAY

Ambien's purpose may be to promote unconsciousness, but it also gave us a reason to laugh — and live — Wednesday, thanks to Roseanne Barr blaming her racist tweet on the prescription sleep aid.

"It was 2 in the morning and I was ambien tweeting — it was memorial day too," Barr explained in a tweet posted overnight that was later deleted.

Though she earlier admitted she'd gone too far and her tweet comparing former Obama aide Valerie Jarrett to an ape was "egregious" and "indefensible," the new excuse woke up Twitter trolls.

Barr's ex-husband, Tom Arnold, promptly seized on the opportunity to taunt her, blaming their entire relationship on Ambien. "I was on Ambien 1990-94," he cracked about the entire duration of their marriage.

I was on Ambien 1990-1994 — Tom Arnold (@TomArnold) May 30, 2018

A few of our other favorite comments:

Beware of the side effects

"The maker of Ambien just announced its newest side effect is sick burns," proclaimed @goldengateblond. We'd have to agree: Pharmaceutical company Sanofi gets the blue ribbon for best burn after telling Barr, "Racism is not a side effect" of thesleep aid.

People of all races, religions and nationalities work at Sanofi every day to improve the lives of people around the world. While all pharmaceutical treatments have side effects, racism is not a known side effect of any Sanofi medication. — Sanofi US (@SanofiUS) May 30, 2018

BuzzFeed writer Jesse McLaren (@McJesse) advised followers to read this fine print in their best phamaceutical-ad-spokesman voice:

"Side effects may include: nausea vomiting, racist thumbs, loss of appetite, loss of TV show. You should not operate wifi connected machinery while using Ambien. Call a PR specialist if your racism lasts longer than 4 hours."

*AMBIEN COMMERCIAL VOICE*



Side effects may include: nausea

vomiting, racist thumbs, loss of appetite, loss of TV show. You should not operate wifi connected machinery while using Ambien. Call a PR specialist if your racism lasts longer than 4 hours. — Jesse McLaren (@McJesse) May 30, 2018

Actually, Ambien would explain a lot

"Ambien makes you racist?" asked Full Frontal With Samantha Bee writer Ashley Nicole Black (@ashleyn1cole). "No wonder some of y’all can’t get woke."

Ambien makes you racist? No wonder some of y’all can’t get woke. 😛 — Ashley Nicole Black (@ashleyn1cole) May 30, 2018

"Nov 2016 - 2018 being an Ambien induced nightmare would really make a lot more sense right now," cracked @Alt_FedEmployee of the political climate since the election.

Nov 2016 - 2018 being an Ambien induced nightmare would really make a lot more sense right now. — Alt Fed Employee (@Alt_FedEmployee) May 30, 2018

@FionaAdorno expressed faux empathy for Barr, writing, "I can sort of wrap my head around Ambien making Roseanne racist. Zoloft and Vicodin has made me tolerant of 2018."

I can sort of wrap my head around Ambien making Roseanne racist.



Zoloft and Vicodin has made me tolerant of 2018. — Fiona Adorno (@FionaAdorno) May 30, 2018

@TheRickyDavila wondered if Ambien was also to blame for Barr's infamous 1990 delivery of the national anthem.

I guess racist Roseanne was on Ambien here too, huh?pic.twitter.com/XvwbEFBbKM — Ricky Davila (@TheRickyDavila) May 30, 2018

Ambien might even explain that whole Pusha T/Drake beef

"Pusha T didn’t mean to go so hard on Drake, he was just on Ambien," suggested @robinthede in response to the Barr story and this one about rapper Pusha T's scathing diss track about his Canadian rival.

Pusha T didn’t mean to go so hard on Drake, he was just on Ambien — Robin Thede (@robinthede) May 30, 2018

@FunnyMaine wondered what other crazy headlines await us: "Roseanne vs Ambien Pusha vs Drake, Trump vs Sessions, Cavs vs Warriors, More Kardashian headlines, (Hurricane) Alberto ... Y'all, it's only Wednesday and we started off with a holiday."

Roseanne vs Ambien

Pusha vs Drake

Trump vs Sessions

Cavs vs Warriors

More Kardashian headlines

Alberto

😞



Y'all, it's only Wednesday and we started off with a holiday — FunnyMaine.com (@FunnyMaine) May 30, 2018

Never take Ambien, Betty White

"Morning Golden Girls Marathon has me cracking up," mused @RonFunches. "I hope Betty White never takes Ambien so I have to stop watching this show too."

Morning Golden Girls Marathon has me cracking up. I hope Betty White never takes Ambien so I have to stop watching this show too. — Ronald Funches (@RonFunches) May 30, 2018

More: Roseanne returns to Twitter after cancellation; blames Ambien for racist tweet

Ambien maker to Roseanne: Racism is not a side effect of our drug

What happens to 'Roseanne'?:Racist tweet likely Barrs revival elsewhere, even without her

#IStandWithRoseane: Why Roseanne supporters forgive her tweet and compare her to Bill Maher

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2xsNl2t