Buy Photo Waajeed performs at Star Gate stage during Movement Electronic Music Festival at Hart Plaza in Detroit, Saturday, May 26, 2018. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

The first time techno music hit Hart Plaza for a Memorial Day weekend celebration, there was no question where the inspiration lay.

Detroit, the genre’s birthplace, was finally throwing a big party to put the spotlight on a music culture long overlooked in its hometown.

Now, after nearly two decades of shifting trends, fashions and industry overhaul, the Movement fest is out to reassert its unique role as keeper of the Detroit techno flame. As corporate festivals elsewhere add techno to their offerings, Movement organizers say they feel a duty to remind the world: We’re the authentic one.

Movement 2018 got underway Saturday afternoon on the riverfront, with early arrivals including the now-standard mix of funkily attired young fans and old-school techno heads. Soon the familiar scene was alive – a musical rainbow of electronic beats across the plaza as impromptu dance circles formed under the ever-present aroma of cinnamon nuts.

This weekend is the 19th year for techno at Hart Plaza, a tradition that started with the Detroit Electronic Music Festival and has carried on under the Movement mantle since 2006.

Buy Photo Bevlove performs at Red Bull Music stage during Movement Electronic Music Festival at Hart Plaza in Detroit, Saturday, May 26, 2018. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)

On Saturday, it was the clear the festival’s organic feel is largely intact, from the joyful, underground sounds that dominated the day, to the attendees who still seem tuned in to Detroit’s place in techno history. Movement was once again home base for a strain of native music that always had soul, a do-it-yourself ethic and purity of spirit at its base.

Hometown artists still play a big role: Music kicked off Saturday with Clark Warner and Gaiser, on a stage mostly devoted to Detroit acts during the three-day fest. Of Saturday's 31 performances, longtime local figures such as Carl Craig, Ectomorph and Stacey Pullen held key slots.

Still, with a proliferation of big-time U.S. festivals springing up across the U.S. in recent years — and new fans making their way to Hart Plaza every year — Movement organizers figured now was the time to distinguish their event by trumpeting its core identity.

The most visible move came with a pair of prominently placed billboards this spring along I-75. “Detroit Is the Birthplace of Techno Music,” declared the first one. It soon gave way to an image of a Michigan license plate emblazoned with “TECHNO CITY.”

Related merchandise — stickers, keychains and so on — is available this weekend at Hart Plaza. And the layouts at two of the festival’s five stages (Pyramid and Stargate) has been reworked to declutter the visuals and expand the dance space in the spirit of traditional clubs.

Jason Huvaere, head of Movement producer Paxahau Events, says it’s all part of a “gentle reminder” that Detroit is the source of the sound that swept the world three decades ago and helped reshape electronic dance music culture.

“It’s a way to stay true to our roots and direction,” said Huvaere. “This was always about music and sound. ... Everyone here loves it here. We don't need to do fancy stuff and wear the latest fashion. It's pure."

When the DEMF started in 2000, it was hailed as a breakthrough: a formal acknowledgement, at long last, of techno and its creators, namely, the young black men who crafted the sound beginning in the '80s. There was an organic family feel to the event’s early years, as it showcased hometown figures, from Derrick May to Kevin Saunderson, and the global acts inspired by them.

More: It's 30 years of big fun as Kevin Saunderson marks Inner City anniversary

As the fest steadily expanded – in tandem with the mainstream rise of electronic dance music in the U.S. – concerns set in among some purists that the event’s character was shifting. By the time the Hula-Hoops and glow sticks showed up in the mid-2000s, their argument got extra weight.

Still, in the bigger scheme of things, Movement retained its distinct boutique feel, especially when seen against the backdrop of industry upheaval that unfolded in the 2010s: Many independent promoters were gobbled up by bigger fish, hordes of new events emerged, existing festivals grew massive.

Huvaere wouldn’t concede if Movement had strayed from its roots in recent years. But wider changes in the festival and electronic business made it more imperative than ever to emphasize Movement’s place, he said.

“For anyone who’s close to the industry, what’s happened in the last three to five years, a lot of things get lost,” he said. “Whenever that much tradition (is shaken up), it’s easy to get left behind. It’s up to us to remember what our job is.”

More: Movement 2018: Highlight picks for Detroit's electronic music festival

Moreover, some of those big fests have added Detroit-inspired programming — like the techno showcases at Coachella in California and the “Resistance” branded stage at Miami’s Ultra.

“That’s great — it’s bringing recognition, and they’ve got huge budgets, venues and audiences,” Huvaere said. “I love that they’re listening to techno now. But (we’re saying): This is how we’ve always done it.”

That’s not lost on those who flock from elsewhere to be among the 30,000-plus daily fans at Movement, including Kevin Willoughby of Dallas, 41, making his first “pilgrimage to the home of techno.”

“Detroit has this kind of mythical place in American techno,” Willoughby said. With the city’s economic hard times, “that romanticism has been amplified even more. This is the most gritty, authentic place — and it’s perfect for this.”

Among the electronic-music fests Willoughby has attended is Miami’s Winter Music Conference, an event he says has grown more commercialized and flashy in recent years.

“To me, this is the anti-Miami,” he said, gesturing toward the Hart Plaza scene in front of him.

Movement’s unique role wasn’t long on young fans Saturday — though some acknowledged not everyone in their cohort got it.

Michael Long, 22, and Amy Tran, 21, said they were well aware of Detroit’s techno tradition.

“But I can definitely see there’s a lot of people who come out who don’t know that,” said Long.

Added Tran: “You see the frat boys who just come to get drunk. You’re like … um, OK.”

Buy Photo Hannah Marshall, center, and Fritz Pfaff, both of Detroit, dance on the lawn near Red Bull Music stage as artist Black Noise performs during Movement Electronic Music Festival at Hart Plaza in Detroit, Saturday, May 26, 2018. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)

At other fests featuring dance music — including Electric Forest in western Michigan — the vibe and music feel more mainstream, they said.

At Movement, “it’s like a fresh perspective on this music.”

The festival’s growth and success through the years may have occasionally overshadowed its original mission, said Aisha Atkins, sister of Juan Atkins – who along with May and Saunderson is universally regarded as the genre’s original sculptor.

“Techno was originated here by three African-American males. They started this thing no one even knew about,” she said. “Anything can get big and out of control sometimes, like a volcano.”

But she applauded the festival for maintaining a platform for Detroit’s originals – and pointed out that it has now embraced the second generation: Sunday will include performances by Juan Atkins’ daughter, Milan Ariel, on the Red Bull Music Stage, while Saunderson’s sons Dantiez and Damarii will hit the Stargate stage.

If one of the goals of that original DEMF was to raise techno's profile in its hometown, then 19 years on ... mission accomplished.

"There's a catechism for people who understand Detroit as a musical city, and expanding that to include techno was important," said Carleton Gholz, founder of the Detroit Sound Conservancy, manning a booth at Hart Plaza. "In terms of understanding Detroit as a techno city, we won."

Contact Detroit Free Press music writer Brian McCollum: 313-223-4450 or bmccollum@freepress.com.

Movement 2018

Hart Plaza

Continues through Monday

$85-$195

www.movement.us

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2INDycR