Flightglobal is pleased to announce the appointments of Sophie Segal and Jamie Bullen, together with the promotion of Edward Russell, completing its new-look finance editorial team.

Segal has been appointed to the new role of global finance editor for Flightglobal. In this role she will be responsible leading the news and analysis agenda for finance content. She brings extensive and rounded expertise of both the finance sector as a whole and the aviation finance segment in particular. In addition to her four years as editor of Airfinance Journal in London and 18 months covering the corporate and helicopter finance markets, she has worked in other finance sectors, most recently covering credit markets. She will be based in Flightglobal's New York office.

Bullen has been appointed as Flightglobal's Europe finance editor. Based in our London office, he will be our prime editorial point of contact for our European aircraft finance coverage, as well as developments in Africa and the Middle East. His wide-ranging financial reporting experience has been built up across the aviation, insurance, infrastructure and debt capital markets in both the UK and Asia.

Russell has been promoted to the position of Americas finance editor. He already has a great track record in covering finance as part of his existing role, having previously worked in financial journalism, and in this expanded role will lead our coverage of the finance sector in the Americas.

Together with our Asia finance editor Ellis Taylor, these appointments complete our new finance editorial team which will be in place in time for this year's Farnborough air show.

"Our new appointments establish a strong team of finance specialists across the regions, enabling us to provide timely original insight of the aircraft finance sector, while in her global role Sophie will be able to drive our overall finance content to ensure we deliver top-level coverage of the key issues and trends shaping this crucial sector of the industry," says Graham Dunn, editor of Flightglobal Dashboard.