One of the cornerstones of science fiction history is coming to the small screen. According to Deadline, it would appear that Apple plans to turn Isaac Asimov's Foundation series into a TV show. The tech giant has reached a deal with Skydance Television, which last June reached a deal with the Asimov estate to create the series.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

The California company has long looked to strengthen its own creative output, sometimes with disastrous results. But it's now acquired the rights to a book series Asimov began in 1942 and continued through 1993, totaling seven books. In 1966 it was voted by the Hugo Awards to be the best all-time science fiction series.

Often leaping between centuries, the books tell the story of Hari Seldon, a scientist who specializes in what's called "pyschohistory." Using a series of probabilistic calculations, Seldon determines that societal collapse in a bloated Galactic Empire is inevitable but is convinced that a reengineered society can shorten the amount of time humanity will have to spend facing barbarism.

Seldon only appears once in the first five books of the series, which then move on to focus on the society Seldon has fled the Empire to create, the Foundation. Antagonists in the series are complex and often sympathetic, like the militaristic empath known as The Mule and the Luddites who populate the world of Askone. Starting in the 80s, Asimov began to revisit the character of Seldon in a series of prequels.

Asimov's series draws from Edward Gibbon's The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire and has become The character of Seldon, a man who essentially uses data to save humanity, has been the inspiration for both ends of the political spectrum as well as countless science fiction protagonists afterward.

However, it's a series that tends away from the giant space battles seen in Star Wars. The plans that characters in the Foundation reach are based around keeping the Seldon Plan, a further series of probabilities, in order. This often means seeking to disarm opponents rather than defeat them militaristically.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Skydance and Apple have apparently tapped David S. Goyer and Josh Friedman for the adaptation. The two have experience in handling big series: Goyer has worked on the numerous Batman, Terminator and Blade films while Friedman has played a role in the still-upcoming Avatar 2, and Steven Spielberg's War of the Worlds adaptation in 2005.

This won't be the first time Foundation has been adapted. In 1973, the BBC created an eight-part radio series of the first book.

Source: Deadline