Jacobs to provide services for ENCINA’s petrochemical plant in US

Jacobs Engineering Group secured a contract to provide operations readiness (OR) support services for ENCINA Chemicals’ new petrochemical plant in Gillette, Wyoming, US.

The company will provide the services for the benzene toluene xylene (BTX) processing plant as part of the front-end loading (FEL 2) phase.



In this phase, Jacobs will be responsible for evaluating operability, maintainability, layout, operations and maintenance (O&M) guidelines.

Saudi Aramco and Total to build $9bn petrochemical complex

Saudi Aramco and Total signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to build a $9bn petrochemical complex in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, next to the SATORP refinery.

Set to be integrated downstream of the refinery in a bid to fully exploit operational synergies, the complex will comprise a mixed-feed steam cracker with an annual capacity of 1.5 million tonnes of ethylene and associated petrochemical units.

The capacity of SATORP refinery has increased from 400,000bpd at its start-up in 2014 to 440,000bpd. The refinery is a joint venture between Saudi Aramco (62.5%) and Total (37.5%).

SAMAC starts operations of MMA and PMMA plants in Saudi Arabia

The Saudi Methacrylates Company (SAMAC) concluded performance tests and started operations at its plants for production of methyl methacrylate (MMA) monomer and polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) in Saudi Arabia.

SAMAC is a joint venture (JV) between Mitsubishi Chemical (MCC) and Saudi Basic Industries (SABIC).

The newly commissioned plants were built with an investment of $360m and are capable of producing 250,000t of MMA and 40,000t of PMMA per annum.

Formosa to build $9.4bn chemical manufacturing complex in US

Taiwanese company Formosa Petrochemical announced plans to build a $9.4bn chemical manufacturing complex at St James Parish in Louisiana, US.

Formosa has bought a 2,400-acre site along the west bank of the Mississippi River to build the complex.

The complex, which will be operated by Formosa’s subsidiary FG LA, is planned to be built in two phases over the next ten years and will produce ethylene, propylene, ethylene glycol and associated polymers.

HIG Capital to buy Brazilian chemical company Elekeiroz

An affiliate of US-based private equity investment firm HIG Capital was announced to acquire Brazilian chemical company Elekeiroz from controlling shareholder Itaúsa –InvestimentosItaú.

Under the agreement, HIG will buy 96.5% in shares of the chemical firm from Itaúsa. Additionally, the company plans to acquire the remaining shares as soon as possible.

HIG Latin America managing director and head Fernando Marques Oliveira said: “We are very much looking forward to working with Elekeiroz. The management team has done a terrific job in building a leadership position across all its products and HIG will now support the company in its organic and inorganic growth plans as well as cost efficiency projects.

AkzoNobel and Ineos sign deal to expand production of chelates

AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals signed an agreement to use one of Ineos Nitriles’ chemical products for the expansion of its production of biodegradable chelates.

The long-term cooperation agreement will allow AkzoNobel to expand its chelates production in Europe.

The agreement will also support customer growth and is set to improve the sustainability profile of both AkzoNobel and Ineos.

CB&I to provide technology for two Chinese ethylene plants

Engineering, procurement and construction company CB&I secured a contract to provide ethylene technology for two Lianyungang Petrochemical’s plants in China.

Located at Lianyungang’s petrochemical facility in Jiangsu Province, the ethylene plants have a capacity of 1,250 kilo tonnes per annum (kta) each.

Lianyungang Petrochemical is a subsidiary of Zhejiang Satellite Petrochemical.

Air Liquide signs hydrogen supply contract with Covestro

Air Liquide signed a contract to supply hydrogen at polymer materials supplier Covestro’s production site in the port area of Antwerp, Belgium.

Under the contract, Air Liquide will invest €80m to design, build and operate a ‘next-generation’ hydrogen production unit, SMR-X.

The unit will be equipped with the company’s new technology that produces hydrogen without co-producing excess steam, improves energy efficiency and the overall environmental footprint of the production process.