CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Home sales jumped in Ohio last month, bucking a nationwide slowdown that a major real estate group and economists blamed on scarce listings.

The Ohio Association of Realtors said Thursday that April sales hit their best-ever pace and shattered a high set two years ago, based on seasonally adjusted annual figures. The monthly sales rate was up 3.3 percent from April 2017 and marked a 1.8 percent gain from March of this year.

Yet the trade group's members say that the early spring housing market has felt a bit more lackluster this year, when compared with 2017 and 2016. In response to a recent survey, Realtors largely described the housing market as strong. But only 34 percent of survey participants reported a busier-than-average early spring.

The National Association of Realtors, meanwhile, reported Thursday that sales of previously owned homes slipped in April. The seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales was down 1.4 percent from April 2017 and off 2.5 percent from March.

That national report focuses only on existing homes, while the Ohio Realtors tally sales of both new and previously owned properties. On Wednesday, the Commerce Department said nationwide new homes sales - a relatively small slice of the housing market - dipped in April but were up 11.6 percent from a year before.

"The root cause of the under-performing sales activity in much of the country so far this year continues to be the utter lack of available listings on the market to meet the strong demand for buying a home," Lawrence Yun, chief economist for the national Realtors, said in a news release. "Realtors say the healthy economy and job market are keeping buyers in the market for now, even as they face rising mortgage rates. However, inventory shortages are even worse than in recent years, and home prices keep climbing above what many home shoppers are able to afford."

Across the nation, the median - or middle - sale price for an existing home was $257,900 in April, up 5.3 percent from a year before.

Ohio real estate groups report average prices instead of medians. The statewide average sale price also posted a 5.3 percent annual gain, rising to $179,366.

In Northeast Ohio, sales and prices were up in April, according to data from the Yes MLS listing service. But 2018 sales through April were lagging last year's levels - down 0.6 percent when compared with the first four months of 2017 - supporting Realtors assertions that spring, so far, feels a bit soft.