CLEVELAND, Ohio -- So, you broke your leg and it hurts really bad. The doctor patched you up and has offered to send you home with painkillers of the opioid variety: some Percocet, perhaps, or OxyContin.

Should you take them? You've read that opiates can be addictive and that getting hooked can lead to tragic consequences.

Presumably (although not necessarily), your doctor has screened you for factors that may put you at greater risk of addiction and has designed your pain management plan accordingly.

But, to be on the safe side, you yourself may want to understand the warning signs that could lead to addiction.

First, a quick explanation of why opiates can be addictive.

What goes on in the brain

Dopamine is the main player, explains Ray Isackila, manager of addiction recovery services at University Hospitals. Dopamine is a naturally occurring chemical messenger that transmits pleasure to your brain. It can be released when you are thinking about a juicy, prime rib dinner or a Cleveland Indians victory in the World Series (if it ever happens).

When somebody takes an opioid, such as Oxycontin, the brain receives a huge blast of dopamine, and that's what gets people hooked.

Dopamine fills receptors in the brain called "re-uptake vesicles," but excess dopamine creates new receptors that thus need to be filled. When they aren't, you experience a craving.

Why are some people more susceptible to those cravings? That's unclear, Isackila said, but researchers have identified a number of traits and conditions where there seems to be a correlation.

Here are six of them.

1. Your history of drug or alcohol abuse

A primary warning sign for addiction is a person's own history of substance abuse whether to drugs, alcohol or even cigarettes, Isackila said.

If you were a smoker, but quit, that's a good sign, he said, but may not have any bearing on your chances of getting hooked on opiates, because the addicting ingredients in cigarettes affect a different part of the brain than do opiates.

That's not the case with alcohol. A former drinker should watch out because taking opioids will remind the brain of the reward it used to get when he or she drank booze.

2. Family history of addiction

It's also important to look at family history. You may have never been addicted, but if a family member has, and if he or she shares your genetics, that may mean you have a propensity to get hooked.

3. Mental health issues and personality traits

Yet another factor is a history of mental health problems, such as mood disorders, including depression and bi-polar disorder.

Other, less extreme psychological traits may also foreshadow addiction. The National Institute on Drug Abuse has identified a variety of characteristics that can signal someone at risk, Isackila said.

For example, low self-esteem can be a warning sign, as well as passivity, which would include a tendency to go along with the crowd, and low self awareness.

Someone at risk of addiction also may have a misperception of normal behavior, he said, that may have been gleaned from television or movies, for example. Some popular shows may have sympathetic characters who are constantly drinking alcohol or smoking weed, when in real life that wouldn't be the case.

Another warning sign might be one's status, such as being poor or belonging to a minority group, which could suggest feelings of marginalization or oppression.

4. History of physical or sexual abuse

Having been a victim of trauma or abuse can be a factor. "It's what we call a psycho-social stressor," Isackila said.

5. Your home life

Chronic stress at home can also mean a greater likelihood of addiction. Isackilia said many people want our schools or the government to protect us, but that's misplaced responsibility.

"The strongest protective factor is still the parents and the way they live their life," Isackila.

6. Last word

Isackila said he can lump risk factors into three areas, biological, environmental and personality (or psychological).

If someone has one of those traits. that's concerning, but may not represent high risk of addiction.

"But if all three come up, biology, environmental and psychological, then I'm really at risk," he said.