Army taps Lockheed for ballistic radar system support



by James Laporta



Washington (UPI) May 14, 2018



Lockheed Martin has been awarded a contract by the U.S. Army for ballistic radar tracking systems.

The deal, announced Friday by the Department of Defense, is valued at more than $91.5 million under the terms of a modified contract to a previous Pentagon award.

The contract from U.S. Army Contracting Command enables Lockheed Martin to provide "Phased Array Tracking on Radar to Intercept Advanced Capability-3 Missile Support Center for the U.S. logistics support missile repair and logistics support recertification," according to the Defense of Department.

Phased Array Tracking Radar is integrated into the U.S. Patriot missile defense system, which protects against a full spectrum of threats, including ballistic missiles and enemy aircraft.

The Pentagon said locations and funding will be determined with each individual order on the contract, which is estimated to run until June 8, 2019.



Related Links

Learn about missile defense at SpaceWar.com

Learn about nuclear weapons doctrine and defense at SpaceWar.com

All about missiles at SpaceWar.com

Learn about the Superpowers of the 21st Century at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Riyadh (AFP) May 10, 2018

