aston martin

AutoNews Now: At Ford, tales of fire, frustration and 'reinventing' the car May 10 At Ford, tales of fire, frustration and 'reinventing' the car; Rolls-Royce's $340K SUV; Aston: Lagonda electric SUV in 2021; Tesla factory as collateral?; Honda's $199 EV lease.



Aston Martin's revived Lagonda will debut with an SUV May 9 Author: Nick Gibbs Aston Martin said the first vehicle from its all-electric Lagonda brand will be an SUV arriving in 2021.



Change comes to the rarefied May 7 Author: Jack Walsworth In the past year, several notable ultraluxury and exotic nameplates have been freshened or redesigned as automakers look to drive sales and expand brand presence.



Aston's off-roader May 7 Aston Martin and partner Triton Submarines said they have finished design work on their Project Neptune, a hypercarlike extension of Triton's line of submersibles that can dive to about 1,600 feet



Scale down to success May 6 Author: Nick Gibbs When he became Aston Martin's CEO in 2014 Andy Palmer brought with him a host of ideas from Nissan.



Aston Martin says China spurring another horse-to-cars moment April 25 China's policies to cut pollution are driving a rapid move toward electric vehicles in the world's biggest market and causing upheaval in the global auto industry, Aston Martin CEO Andy Palmer said.



AutoNews Now: COO Sprague leaving Kia Motors America April 6 U.S. COO Sprague leaving Kia; Ford F-150, Expedition rollaway risk; Report: Trump mulls tougher rules for imports; Aston's first SUV not an EV; 'The Closer': Model T to Model 3?



Aston's Palmer to speak at AN Europe Congress March 26 Andy Palmer, CEO of Aston Martin, will be among the speakers at the 21st Automotive News Europe Congress in Turin on June 6.



Aston, Rolls spar over visions of tomorrow's superluxe sedan March 18 Author: Nick Gibbs Aston Martin and Rolls-Royce engaged in a public spat at the Geneva auto show over what the superluxury sedan of the future should look like.



LUXE LEADERSHIP March 12 Author: Nick Gibbs BMW and other brands used the Geneva auto show to stake claims in upper-luxury segments dominated by VW Group's sprawling yet integrated empire of upscale brands.



Hits & Misses March 11 Author: Nick Gibbs In Geneva, Aston Martin's big gamble pays off, Hyundai plays it safe and Subaru teases us again.

