By StoryStudio

AT&T has always connected people all over the world. As the company grew in power and scope, AT&T realized that its network could be used to help others, and education was made a priority. The company believes that prosperous companies, such as itself, are obligated to make sure students of all ages are prepared to meet the needs of the future workforce. That’s why they created AT&T Aspire.

Their signature philanthropic initiative, AT&T Aspire, has proven to be invaluable to students and communities across America, providing a supportive network that fosters success.

With Aspire, AT&T asks their employees to mentor students from all over the world and help them discover their passion and potential. That’s what happened between AT&T employee Saira Pasha and her mentee, Gina Garcia.

Saira Pasha, originally from Karachi, Pakistan, came to the United States to study at Agnes Scott College, a private, liberal arts women’s college in Atlanta, Georgia. After graduating, Saira moved to the Bay Area to attend Mills College to get her MBA. It was at Mills that Saira first began working with AT&T, through an internship program that changed her life forever.

“My MBA was a two-year program. After I completed my first year, I was accepted into AT&T’s signature Leadership Development Internship Program, which was based out of San Ramon. I oversaw operations and training in seven AT&T retail stores and was also assigned to improve U-verse TV metrics,” recalls Saira. “I was put into a sink-or-swim situation because AT&T wanted to see if I could lead, problem solve, create solutions and manage individuals whom I’d never met all at the same time. It was adventurous, fun, but also terrifying.”

Saira proved to be up to the challenge. “I had a great boss who gave me a great impression of the company,” said Saira. “Tyson had great mentorship abilities and guided me in a an encouraging way, I made several mistakes along the way but I also learned from them as fast as I made them which allowed me to have successful results in the end”

When the internship ended and Saira graduated, she was offered to take on a full-time position at AT&T. She agreed and was placed in AT&T’s signature Leadership Development Program that focuses on building future leaders for AT&T.

Mills College also took notice of Saira’s leadership abilities. Their own mentorship career program asks grad students in their second year to help guide new students navigate their MBA degree. Though Saira was in her final stretch of grad school, she knew younger students could benefit from being paired with someone as seasoned as herself. She decided to accept the challenge.

“Mills College has a strong focus on building an active and engaged community.hen new students join Mills, they can be assigned a career coach/mentor,” explains Saira. “Three MBA students were selected to be mentors and coaches, and I was one of them. Gina was from the new incoming class and was assigned to me in that way. assigned.”

Gina Garcia will never forget their first meeting. “It was right when school first started. It happened to be one of those gorgeous, sunny San Francisco days in September, and I was just really bitter that I had to go to this event at the career services center. But that’s when I met Saira,” Gina recalls. “I had been assigned as a mentee to her group, and here I am with this scowl on my face, sitting at this table thinking, ‘I already have all this work experience; I shouldn’t have to be here.’ I wanted to be out with my friends. But Saira was just so fun and welcoming and I knew I was in good hands.”

Gina was at Mills College to get her MBA, but had a long gap between the end of her undergraduate degree at the University of San Francisco and her arrival at Mills College. “I’ had been working since I was 18. Even when I was in school full time to work on my undergrad degree, I had a side hustle at the mall. I was exhausted after I graduated, and I needed to take time off.”

The readjustment to student life proved difficult. “Being in graduate school can be really lonely. Your life has to come to completely change,” she said.

Saira had thirteen other mentees, but she could see Gina struggling. “I would meet with Gina and we would work on issues that stemmed from her adjusting being back in a school environment. It was hard for her to navigate the beginning stages and she needed the extra support to travel down the path,” Saira said. “She’d tell me some of the issues that would rise for her in classrooms and amongst peers, all were natural and normal to feel and experience. During this time, I would be her confidant and support, I listened with intent and provided possible ways on how she could approach them which provided comfort and confidence and overtime Gina was able to handle and conquer these situations by herself.”

“I was on academic probation for a while because the quantitative side of the program was tremendously difficult for me,” said Gina. “When I was thinking that I was going to get kicked out of school because I couldn’t pass quantitative methods, Saira was the one person that I could call. She’s the type of woman that makes sure that you feel important. Nobody else in my life does that.”

Through their meetings, their relationship began to evolve. “Every time we would meet, something new would unfold and our bond grew tighter talking about shared experiences,” said Saira. “I think Gina just needed to talk things out. Sometimes a coach, an older sister or mentor creates space to talk about issues that others don’t want to discuss or that may be uncomfortable. When you lead by example, the mentee sees how to be successful and it empowers them. People can forget what their core strengths are over time, I think I just had to remind Gina of her potential and encourage her to keep consistent on that path. I was her cheerleader””

Gina successfully made it through her studies and obtained her MBA with the support of Saira’s mentorship. Today, their respect and mutual admiration remains. Had AT&T not seen the leadership qualities in Saira and nurtured them, Gina and Saira might never have crossed paths.

Saira continues to mentor, helping new employees at AT&T adjust to the scope of corporate responsibilities, but she still has time for Gina. “When a connection is formed, I make a conscious effort to keep it alive and active, relationships are very important to me. ” said Saira.

Gina agrees that their relationship is special. “Saira reminds me what my dreams are. She doesn’t allow me to be lazy or sell myself short, and I really appreciate that.”

Gina and Saira’s mentor/mentee relationship is just one of many that AT&T has had a hand in nurturing. Through Aspire, since the fall of 2012, AT&T employees have impacted more than 260,000 students through more than 1.5 million hours of mentoring. And that’s just a fraction of the amazing philanthropic educational work that AT&T is committed to continuing.

To learn more about AT&T’s socially responsible work, follow this link.