audi

Audi CEO says diesel crisis not over and vows to stay on May 25 Audi CEO Rupert Stadler said the company's diesel emissions affair was not over and promised to stay at the helm of the German luxury automaker, a German newspaper reported.



AutoNews Now: Fire damages newly built Jeeps May 21 Fire damages newly built Jeeps; Trump signs bill overturning lending guidance; CR not recommending Tesla Model 3; Nissan's short-term pain; Solid future for Fisker?; Audi Q8 tease.



VW brand to skip 2018 Paris auto show May 17 A spokesman for VW's French operations said that other Volkswagen Group brands -- Audi, Porsche, Skoda and Seat -- are still scheduled to attend the October show.



First Shift: Mazda taps Americas chief as new CEO May 11 Mazda taps Americas chief as CEO; Audi skipping Detroit; Trump, auto execs to meet; Profits drop at Subaru; Trimming up inexpensive cars; Nissan, Toyota aid nursing moms, premature babies.



Audi to skip 2019 Detroit auto show, joining BMW, Benz May 10 Author: Larry P. Vellequette In dropping out of the 2019 Detroit auto show, Audi said it will continue to evaluate auto shows case by case, relative "to the timing of our product introductions and the value the show brings from a media and consumer perspective."



Audi targets 800,000 electric, hybrid car sales in 2025 May 9 Audi said it plans to sell about 800,000 battery-electric and hybrid-powered cars in 2025, when it also expects to generate an operating profit of $1.2 billion.



Audi investigated for possible new emissions defeat device May 8 German motor vehicle authority KBA is probing Audi to see whether its diesel engine A6/A7 models have been fitted with previously unknown defeat device softward, a German magazine reported.



LUXURY: Mercedes maintains luxe lead over BMW, Lexus May 1 Mercedes-Benz USA, propelled by strong demand for SUVs, topped the luxury U.S. sales race in April and continues to outpace its nearest rivals, No. 2 BMW and No. 3 Lexus, year to date.



Audi recalling 1.16 million vehicles worldwide over coolant pump issue April 24 Audi said it was recalling more than a million vehicles worldwide because of concerns that an electric coolant pump could overheat or short-circuit from moisture within the pump and pose a fire risk.



VW's $229M settlement with owners of 3.0-liter diesels cleared by Canada judge April 20 Author: Greg Layson An Ontario judge approved a settlement worth up to $229 million with about 20,000 owners of 3.0-liter VW, Audi and Porsche diesel vehicles in Canada affected by VW's emissions violations.

