CLOSE Free Press sports writer Ryan Ford takes a look at the record holders of IndyCar racing on Belle Isle. Wochit

The Grand Prix showcases the beauty of Belle Isle and the Detroit and Windsor waterfronts to audiences around the world. (Photo: Chevrolet Detroit Grand Prix presented by Lear)

The early closure of Belle Isle on Memorial Day was not related to the upcoming Detroit Grand Prix, officials said, just the large number of people who drove to the park to enjoy the holiday.

"There was an estimation of the staff that even if the Grand Prix set-up wasn’t there, we probably still would have reached a critical mass," Michigan Department of Natural Resources Parks Chief Ron Olson said.

The Michigan State Police announced at about 4:15 p.m. Monday that it was closing the island because of overcrowding. At 5:45 p.m., officials said the park was closed to vehicles, but open to foot traffic.

Olson said the decision was made by both state police troopers and conservation officers.

"After going around the isle and there were a lot of cars parked, some in the bike lane, particularly around the beach area, it was just overwhelmed with people wanting to go to the beach," Olson said. "It got to the point where there was an opinion that bringing more cars on the island and people expecting to park and go where they wanted to go, it became unsafe for the people that were already there."

State Police First Lt. Mike Shaw said the island has parking for 3,000 vehicles.

"It's not people; it's vehicles," he said. "We only have parking on the island for 3,000 vehicles, so once you get over the 3,000 mark, we have to close the vehicle traffic off, but you're still allowed to get on the island by foot or by bicycle."

Olson said there is no set crowd number that officials use to determine whether the park is overcrowded.

The park has closed in the past for overcrowding, but it's rare, Olson said. During the annual fireworks display celebrating the Fourth of July, vouchers are passed out for parking spots. The state DNR has been managing the park since early 2014.

Olson noted that some other state parks also closed early on Memorial Day because they were full.

"We don’t like to do that. But, typically, just as an example, Holland State Park was closed at 10 a.m. (on Monday) for the whole rest of the day," he said. "We had some other parks along Lake Michigan that were the same because the parks became full. So, it's not something that's unique to Belle Isle."

The Detroit Grand Prix opens Friday.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IXygqW