BAE Systems tapped for HERCULES recovery vehicles



by James Laporta



Washington (UPI) May 8, 2018



BAE Systems has been awarded a contract from the U.S. Army for the HERCULES armored recovery vehicle.

The deal, announced Monday by the Department of Defense, is valued at more than $120.4 million, which is a modification to a previous Pentagon award from 2017 worth more than $68.8 million under the terms of a firm-fixed-price contract.

The modified contract from the U.S. Army Contracting Command enables BAE Systems to deliver M88A2 Heavy Equipment Recovery Combat Utility Lift and Evacuation System vehicles to the Army, according to a Defense Department contract announcement.

The Heavy Equipment Recovery Combat Utility Lift and Evacuation System, or HERCULES, vehicle is the military version of the civilian tow truck, capable of recovering other broken down military equipment and vehicles weighing more than 70 tons, or 140,000 lbs.

Work on the contract will occur in York, Pa., with the modified contract extending the period of performance from September 2019 to January 2021, according to the Pentagon press release and GovTribe,.

More than $7 million will be obligated to BAE Systems at time of award from Army fiscal year 2018 other procurement funds.



Related Links

The latest in Military Technology for the 21st century at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Washington (UPI) May 3, 2018

