Low-cost carrier Norwegian launched direct flights from Newark to Barcelona almost a year ago.

Browsing Kayak on a chilly January night, I discovered a round-trip itinerary for a long weekend in late April with a price tag below $400 — and jumped at the chance to visit a waterfront city with amazing food and swoon-worthy architecture.

Here’s what’s new in the palm-treed paradise.

What to do

Catalan architect Antoni Gaudi is basically the patron saint of Barcelona, designing many of its major attractions. Most trafficked are the still-incomplete Sagrada Familia (a Catholic church), the garden- and tile mosaic-filled Park Guell and Casa Batllo, a fantastical apartment building turned house museum and event space. Off the beaten path, though, is 1885-completed Casa Vicens, the first house Gaudi ever designed. Converted from a single-family home to apartments, a multiyear restoration has returned the Gracia area’s stunning property to its former glory; it opened to the public for the first time in November. A detailed audio guide that comes with the $18 entrance fee explains how the house’s colorfully patterned walls and ceilings, adorned with animals, plants and geometric designs, reflect North African influences and foreshadow Gaudi’s later work.

Where to eat

In September 2016, former El Bulli chef Albert Raurich opened tapas joint Dos Pebrots in the up-and-coming Raval neighborhood. Don’t look here for patatas bravas; dishes take inspiration from ancient and overlooked Catalan and Mediterranean recipes and are wildly creative without being fussy. A sculpture of a pig whose back is lined with tender pork slices arrives at the table; broad beans are cooked in almond milk; and eggplant, pumpkin and fennel soaked in vinegar and oil come topped with greens.

Where to shop

Forgo the Gaudi magnets and bring back goodies by local designers instead. Lined with ballet flats in every hue and leather bags to match, Kokua’s five boutiques are centrally located. The shoes and satchels are all made in the city. Meanwhile, in the non-touristy Gracia neighborhood near Casa Vicens, KTU Barcelona curates funky clothes and accessories by area brands. (I left the store laden with a men’s shirt covered in a shark print and a stylishly draped sheer white top.)

Where to stay

Homegrown hotels are popping up all over town. Known for its properties in the Balearic islands (Ibiza and Majorca), OD Barcelona debuted in August in the leafy Eixample ’hood (from $155). Furnished with woodsy minimalist pieces, the comfortable hotel has a charming ground-floor garden and a triangular rooftop pool. The 2017-opened Room Mate Gerard, one of the latest first-name-branded boutique outposts from the Madrid-based Room Mate chain, tries to be your witty best friend (from about $150). Toiletry packaging is emblazoned with witty catchphrases (“shower caps for brilliant minds”) and a decadent breakfast is served until noon. Noon! Let’s all move to Spain.

The author was a guest of the hotels.