Chef and owner Johnny Prepolec says in June he will unveil a well-hidden speakeasy in the basement of his Mr. B’s Gastropub

Buy Photo Mr B's Gastropub in downtown Royal Oak. (Photo: Free Press file photo)Buy Photo

Shhhh!! It’s a secret, but we’re going to let you in on it. Just don’t tell anyone else.

A speakeasy is coming to downtown Royal Oak.

It has a name – Johnny’s – but there will be no sign and you’ll have to know about the secret door.

That’s all according to chef and owner Johnny Prepolec, who says in June he will unveil a well-hidden speakeasy in the basement of his Mr. B’s Gastropub, at 215 S. Main St. He says Johnny’s will have its own menu and a separate address, 213, S. Main St.

“A speakeasy is supposed to be a secret, so there won’t even be a sign for it,” Prepolec said. “The entrance will be disguised as a cooler door.”

Meanwhile, Mr. B’s Gastropub continues to evolve with the addition of a vintage arcade, a first for Royal Oak. Centipede, Ms. Pacman and Skee-Ball are on the roster.

Also coming to downtown Royal Oak in June is Dessert Oasis Coffee Roasters at 115 S. Main St., Launching its third and largest location, Dessert Oasis is breathing new life into the former LaDolce, which moved to Detroit.

More: Venerated Clawson sushi shop and market Noble Fish to expand

More: First Bite: Rotisserie chicken is star at Peruvian restaurant in Ferndale

At 3,500 square feet, it will house the local chain’s baking operations, said co-owner and president Nathan Hamood. Dessert crepes, its signature cheesecake and roasted-onsite coffee are on the menu. Live music, Hamood’s homemade hair pomade and décor punctuated with velvet, brass and retro mid-century vibes add to the fun.

More: The Stand restaurant in Birmingham to close, transform into new concept

Milan Pizzeria, 415 S. Main St., is hosting its grand opening June 12 at noon with a slice of free pizza, said Royal Oak Downtown Development Authority Downtown Manager Sean Kammer. Housed in the former Thai on Main, it’s quickly earned a reputation for its generous slices.

City Ramen, a restaurant where the signature noodle dish is king, is under construction at 321 S. Main St. It will reside in a former upscale resale boutique and antique emporium, Kammer said. Its plans are under review by the building department, which indicates a late-year opening.

Want more stories from southeast Oakland County? Join our Facebook group Woodward248 by Freep.com

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LJopXK