By StoryStudio

Renaud La Joie, Ph.D, did not intend to study Alzheimer’s disease when he entered university. But he ended up joining a lab for six months that focused on the research and studying of memory, and stayed on to receive his master’s degree, and Ph.D. “I didn’t have any specific interest in Alzheimer’s to start with,” he says, “but I had a passion for it from the moment I stepped into this lab.”

Dr. La Joie recently received a 3 year Alzheimer’s Association fellowship as a postdoctoral scholar at UCSF’s Department of Neurology. He will analyze data from imaging scans to understand how Alzheimer’s propagates in the brain. “All this data can help us understand and model the disease better…using this imaging data I hope we can improve the diagnosis of patients.”

Alzheimer’s remains the only disease in the top 10 causes of death in the U.S. without a treatment or cure. Researchers like Dr. La Joie and others inside the 30 U.S. Alzheimer’s Disease Research Centers (ADRCs) are determined to change this situation. California has six ADRCs, by far the most of any state. The Bay Area, with ADRCs at Stanford, UCSF and UC Davis, serves as an international hub for Alzheimer’s research. In addition to these three centers, the Gladstone Institutes, located in San Francisco, UC Berkeley and Kaiser, all have important Alzheimer’s research programs. Clearly, the Bay Area has this deadly and debilitating disease in its sights.

Funding of these and other research centers remains critical. The Alzheimer’s Association remains the largest private funder of Alzheimer’s research. In fact, the Association is the third-largest funder in the world, behind only the United States and Chinese governments. A survey of local researchers demonstrates the importance of ongoing funding, and why we all should participate in fundraisers.

Niraj Shanbhag, M.D., joined the UCSF School of Medicine to work more closely with Alzheimer’s patients. A clinical fellow in the Department of Neurology, Dr. Shanbhag is well aware of the importance of funding for his research. “A lot of the work I do has to do with new ways of looking at DNA damage [“double strand breaks”] and new ways of imaging it with the microscope and sometimes that means buying a lot of tools and agents. I think these funds allow me to pursue the questions I have with the most current technology.”

Dr. Shanbhag plans to start his own lab eventually, where he can see patients with dementia and also conduct his research. He remains determined to improve early detection of Alzheimer’s. He is currently working with a geneticist to develop new ways to detect Alzheimer’s in the blood. “The pie-in-the-sky idea is that eventually a patient will come into the clinic and we will draw blood and make a diagnosis right off the bat.”

Anne Berry, Ph.D., is also working in a novel area of Alzheimer’s research. The UC Berkeley postdoctoral fellow looks at subtle brain changes and changes in thinking prior to an Alzheimer’s diagnosis. “I’m very hopeful about Alzheimer’s research. I think it’s a great sign that there’s continued funding from the Alzheimer’s Association and our government, that we have a lot of young scientists entering the field, and that these collaborations are going to be fruitful in the future.”

The Alzheimer’s Association International Conference (AAIC) is the largest forum for collaboration among Alzheimer’s scientists, and brings together dementia researchers from 70 countries. The 2018 AAIC is scheduled for July 20–26 in Chicago.

Get Involved We need your help in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease.



Lea T. Grinberg, M.D., Ph.D., has been attending the conference since 2006. An associate professor at UCSF Memory and Aging Center, Dr. Grinberg even presented in 2017 with five UCSF colleagues. “The AAIC is a great forum for showing what we are doing and connecting with other people who are also interested in this field,” she says.

Dr. Geoff Kerchner, M.D., Ph.D., is a frequent speaker who has worked with Alzheimer’s patients at Stanford Health Center for many years. The neurologist is also a strong advocate for the Walk to End Alzheimer’s, a key fundraiser for the Alzheimer’s Association. “The reason I walk is because I want to support my patients. My patients need more from me than I am able to provide, more than our education and support.”

Dr. Kerchner says the Alzheimer’s Association fills many of the gaps in care and support services, as well as funding research to advance the field.

“I also walk because the Alzheimer’s Association advocates to federal and state governments to get more recognition for this disease, more recognition for what patients and families are going through, and hopefully more research dollars and support by the government.”

The Alzheimer’s Association provides funding for valuable research in laboratories and clinics around the globe. The novel methodology and profound discoveries being made at the Alzheimer’s Disease Research Centers and other labs indicate this support is paying dividends that will change lives.

This autumn, follow the lead of Dr. Kerchner and his colleagues and join the Walk to End Alzheimer’s, which will take place in 18 Northern California and Northern Nevada communities. Contact your local Alzheimer’s Association office to learn how to participate in your local Walk, help provide care and support for families, and contribute to advancing research at this critical time.