By StoryStudio

﻿﻿

As the housing market sizzles with no sign of cooling, isn’t it time technology caught up to provide a better real estate experience? If it’s easy to bundle insurance, travel amenities, and many other goods and services, why not bundle real estate services to save on a major financial transaction?

That service is now available to Bay Area residents via Bundle Select. A local startup, Bundle Select™ is the first real estate company to offer bundled realtor, lender, and title services for savings of 20% or more*—plus a variety of other complementary perks—when buying or selling a home.

By bundling services, Bundle Select™ streamlines the home buying and selling process, radically simplifying an outdated and arduous procedure. At the same time, users are paired with top realtors, lenders, and title & escrow professionals in their area.

“You’ll not only work with hand-picked experts, but also enjoy the benefits of technology while saving money on all three services,” explains founder and CEO Joe Cucchiara.

Cucchiara, who runs the successful Real Estate Radio Live podcast on Bay Area real estate, believes he has the data on his side. Studies indicate that 95% of consumers start their home buying and selling research online. Over 65% are appalled by the high transaction fees, and want a negotiated deal. Over 60% of consumers believe the real estate industry should make better use of technology. Perhaps most surprising at a time when many real estate startups are cutting realtors out of the equation, 85% of consumers say that they would prefer to partner with a qualified realtor during one of the biggest financial transactions of their lives.

Bundle Select delivers on all accounts, and throws in additional perks for good measure. Every user is partnered with a complementary expert concierge, who acts as their personal advocate from signup to closing. Because Bundle Select pre-negotiates the terms with its vendors, consumers can potentially lower interest rates, cover closing costs, save money on moving costs, and even make a non-contingent offer on a new home before selling their own.

The end result? A more straightforward process, hundreds saved per month in decreased mortgage payments, and tens of thousands saved in the real estate transaction—all while working with the top rated pros.

Says Cucchiara: “After nearly eight years of being a radio host, podcasting and conducting extensive ongoing research, one thing became crystal clear: We have a more educated and informed consumer who demands that more affordable, efficient products be delivered faster. I founded Bundle Select with a world-class team and investors to provide just that.” A team of investors and advisors that include Peggy Abkemeier, CFO for the Chan – Zuckerberg intuitive, Chief Architect and co-founder for Hotel Tonight, Chris Bailey and Managing Partner for The Computer Law Group, Jack Russo.

Curious about getting started? Head over to BundleSelect.com, and use the pricing sliders to see what you stand to save across the board before you sign up. If you like what you see, enter your basic contact info for a commitment-free chat with a Bundle Select concierge to confirm your savings. From there, your concierge will assign and introduce you to your realtor, lender and title partners—while remaining available for any concerns you have throughout the process.

Bundle Select interviews, vets, and selects out only the top-rated realtors, lenders and title companies to participate on its platform. However, if the customer has an existing realtor relationship, they can use their own realtor, provided he or she signs up as a preferred partner with Bundle Select.

Technology is revolutionizing long-established institutions from taxis to taxes, but the real estate industry has remained virtually unchanged for over 100 years, with large, percentage-based commissions that haven’t changed even as real estate costs have soared. Finally, consumers have better options that reflect their needs and preferences, making the momentous process of buying or selling their home a better one. For more information, please visit www.bundleselect.com or call toll free (800) 307-2368.

*Estimated minimum savings are based on a comparison with the national average, individual results may vary, and the estimated savings are not guaranteed. Bundle Select™ Inc. is a licensed Real Estate Broker in the state of California, California Bureau of Real Estate Broker License #00466902.