Becca Kufrin is ready to do the damn thing.

After being dumped on-camera by then-fiancé Arie Luyendyk Jr. on “The Bachelor” earlier this year, the Minnesota-bred publicist is now in the driver’s seat, wishful for her own happy ending as the “Bachelorette.”

see also ‘Bachelor’ blindsides fiancée in controversial finale Warning: Spoilers ahead “The hardest breakups are the breakups you...

“After Arie ended things with me, I went back to Minnesota, and I didn’t really know what to do,” Becca, 28, recalls on Monday’s season premiere. “Just a few months ago I was engaged, everything that I envisioned for the future was switched and changed up. I mean I was completely blindsided.”

With 28 gents vying for her affection, Becca immediately finds herself drawn to several suitors, including Colorado sales rep Blake, 28.

“Blake makes me feel very hopeful,” Becca gushes. “He’s making such an impression on me.”

Becca also goes fishing poolside with Reno, Nevada, native Garrett, 29.

“I grew up fishing and hunting with my dad, knowing Garrett does that, he would fit in so well,” Becca says. “I really like Garrett.”

But before Becca can hand out the coveted first-impression rose, potential duds are sniffed out among the guys, as it’s suspected some men are not there for the right reasons.

Confronting Jake, 29, a Minneapolis-based marketing consultant, Becca questions his true motives, as they’ve met in the past back home in Minnesota.

“Jake has never shown any interest in me up until now,” Becca explains. “We’ve hung out a couple of times, there was never really any interest.”

Despite the option of a new beginning, Becca opts to surge forward without Jake in the picture.

“I would constantly question your intentions here, and I so appreciate you coming here,” Becca says before telling Jake goodbye.

Already feeling connections forming, Becca grabs Garrett to give him the first rose of the night.

“You have been so wonderful the entire night. You made me feel so comfortable. I would love to give you the first-impression rose,” Becca gleams.

As the cocktail party comes to an end, the first rose ceremony of the season begins.

“Seeing the roses on the table and realizing six of us are going home is really scary,” Blake says, before scoring a rose.

Becca ultimately gifts the final flower of the evening to Chris R., who waved a red flag earlier in the night against a fellow contestant.

“I am so hopeful looking at each and every one of you,” Becca tells her remaining suitors. “Here is to the beginning of this amazing, crazy love story.”