If you write a column about athletes kneeling during the national anthem, you can expect to find yourself rapidly mired in debates about free speech. Because speech is (we lightheartedly hope) nuanced and complex, there will always be an element of "I know it when I see it" in placing cases into "protected" or "unprotected" categories. Which means we could spend the rest of our lives arguing about just what free speech means — and, frankly, we probably will.

What we ought to be able to agree on is some principles for making free speech better. And in that spirit, I'll go first.

Principle No. 1:

Don't burn flags.

In 1989, the Supreme Court ruled that a communist agitator (no, really) named Gregory Lee Johnson had a First Amendment right to burn a flag in protest outside the Republican National Convention. The Supreme Court was right. Johnson was not. Burning flags is an incredibly stupid mode of speech, and you should refrain from it.

Good free speech tries to express ideas and achieve some positive change with them. And positive change does not include "sending people I dislike into a hopping mad rage for the sheer joy of watching their spittle fly."

Astute readers may suspect that I am talking about conservative students who invite "trigger the libs" speakers to campus. Yes, I am — along with the speakers themselves. This sort of speech is not merely a waste of time; it is not merely beneath the dignity of adults; it is also completely counterproductive.

People who are actually fond of the thing you are insulting — whether it's the American flag, feminism or something else — take only one message from your speech: The speaker is a jerk. Most people do not want to associate themselves with jerks or the things those jerks support. And people who just don't care one way or another — which is to say, your most fertile hunting ground for new supporters — will look at you spewing a stream of insults and think, "I guess I'll go listen to someone who actually has something to say."

So congratulations, your brave stand against ... whatever ... just made it less likely that any of the things you're for will ever happen.

This also applies to protest that isn't simply pure provocation, like refusing to stand for the national anthem in order to protest police brutality. It's going to strike many people as disrespectful, if you yourself are an American. You can insist all you want that you're not disrespecting the anthem, but others are still going to see it that way.

Principle No. 2:

Don't preach to the choir (too much).

We all need affirmation, to vent our frustrations and seek reinforcement from like-minded companions. The appropriate space for this is the privacy of your own home, or a bar. It's not the public square.

Don't give yet another speech about how right you are and how dumb your opponents are. Don't write that article. Don't send that tweet. Don't.

Principle No. 3:

Don't confuse your enjoyment with your effectiveness.

When I was in college, I went to a lot of protests for various left-wing causes. I enjoyed them a lot. Chanting in groups is fun, especially when those groups include your friends. I got to feel important, part of something that really mattered.

Over time, I noticed that it mostly seemed to be effective at building strong networks of people who liked to stand out in the sun and chant. Tangible action seemed to occur elsewhere.

That's not to say that protest never works. But it is seductively easy to confuse holding a sign with actually having accomplished something. So while protest can build solidarity for positive change, it can also become a substitute for said change. This illusion is particularly damaging when your protest is something that is actually working against your goals, like flag-burning.

Principle No. 4:

Don't start talking if you aren't ready for people to talk back.

One of the laziest, most destructive ideas in modern debate is some version of "It's time for men to stop talking and listen to women about sexism in the workplace."

That's just one example of a common phenomenon: people saying that we need a "national conversation" about gender, or race, or some other issue — and then making it clear that their idea of a "conversation" is that they get to deliver a stiff lecture, while the folks on the other side alternate between listening raptly and apologizing profusely.

Return to your dictionary and reacquaint yourself with the meaning of the word "conversation."

If you can't handle hearing "I disagree," then you are the one who should stop talking. If you open your mouth, prepare to be criticized, often forcefully.

Principle No. 5:

Always explore the option of ignoring provocative speech.

Despite my best efforts, a lot of people are going to burn flags, actual or rhetorical. Because their highest joy is seeing their opponents turn an exotic shade of purple, they will try to do this as ostentatiously as possible. Quite soon, you will find yourself conferring with like-minded friends, all of them anxiously saying, "What are we going to do about it?"

Have you tried "nothing"? When it comes to responding to people who are trying to provoke you, not responding should always be your first resort, not your last.

And that applies even to people who aren't being pointlessly provocative but are still making you plenty mad. Look, I get why conservatives think people should stand for the national anthem. But what societal calamity do you really imagine would befall America if you just decided to ignore it? A nation that isn't strong enough to withstand a little quiet nonpatriotism isn't a nation that deserves to live.

Principle No. 6:

Don't go looking for reasons to get mad.

I happened to be talking recently to a doctor who specializes in addiction, and he noted the similarities between people who spend their days cruising the internet, looking for things to be mad about, and stimulant addicts. Both of them are seeking a quick adrenaline rush. Both of them are doing something that's literally unhealthy (adrenaline, a key part of your "fight or flight" reflex, takes a long-term toll on your body).

But oh, rage is intoxicating. It suppresses your anxieties and your petty concerns so that you can focus everything on the main threat. And sometimes rage is necessary to combat some dire threat. But really, not nearly as often as rageful people think. Rage is only good for fighting, never good for boring old democratic tasks such as achieving consensus and compromise. Also, it doesn't do great things for your judgment.