Beijing welcomes use of Chinese space station by all UN Nations



by Staff Writers



Moscow (Sputnik) May 30, 2018



China is planning to launch the main module of the station in 2019 to test all the necessary technologies. The station is expected to become fully functional in 2022.

Beijing is open to other UN nations using the Chinese space station on an equal basis, Shi Zhongjun, China's ambassador to the United Nations and other international organizations in Vienna, said Monday.

"CSS belongs not only to China, but also to the world ... All [UN] countries, regardless of their size and level of development, can participate in the cooperation on an equal footing," Shi said, as quoted by the Xinhua news agency.

According to the ambassador, public and private organizations alike can suggest their cooperation projects.

China is planning to launch the main module of the station in 2019 to test all the necessary technologies. The station is expected to become fully functional in 2022.

Earlier, China Central Television reported that the core module of China's space station wais being tested in a factory of the Space City of North China's Tianjin Municipality.

Source: Xinhua News



Related Links

China National Space Administration

The Chinese Space Program - News, Policy and Technology

China News from SinoDaily.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Moscow (Sputnik) May 18, 2018

