BY ETHAN KASSEL

#3 Bellarmine 58, #7 St. Francis 56 (OT)

After Bellarmine ran roughshod over an injury-riddled St. Francis team in a 74-57 win on January 11, talk instantly shifted to Saturday’s rematch.

Sure enough, the rematch delivered the goods.

A healthy St. Francis team, fueled by a raucous home crowd, pushed Bellarmine to the limit before Kiran Kruse’s free throws with 1.7 seconds left in overtime pushed the WCAL-leading Bells to the thrilling victory.

Kruse’s free throws were the culmination of a roller-coaster ride that saw six ties and nine lead changes.

Logan Johnson gave St. Francis a 56-54 lead on a three-pointer with a minute left in overtime. Kendall Stubblefield tied the game for Bellarmine with 30 seconds to go. St. Francis held the ball with a chance to win the game, but Kruse and Jake Wojcik teamed up to force a steal. Kruse gained possession and was fouled just shy of half-court by Illinois football commit Bennett Williams. After the sophomore’s free throws put the Bells on top, Johnson’s desperation heave fell short, setting off a wild celebration for the visiting Bells.

For Kruse, the free throws were about more than just beating his team’s rival. He said he thought of good friend Daniel Cole, a Bellarmine sophomore who died suddenly his his sleep last week. No cause has been revealed, but it didn’t really matter to Kruse or the the Bellarmine student body, who wore Golden State Warriors’ gear to Saturday’s game. Daniel was an avid Warriors’ fan. A moment of silence was held for him before the game.

“I knew I was going to hit those for him,” Kruse said. “He loved basketball and he loved sports. I wanted to get the job done to honor him.”

It was fitting for the lone sophomore on Bellarmine’s roster to sink the winning free throws. Though Kruse scored just five points, his last two provided the winning margin and meant immeasurably more to both Kruse and the entire Bellarmine community.

Not only did the Bells face a deficit in the final minute of overtime, they also came back in the closing moments of regulation.

Colin Denzel made one of two free throws to put the visitors up 49-45 with 2:08 remaining in the fourth quarter, but a layup by Jake Mihanovic with 1:25 to go and a Logan Johnson putback with 50 seconds remaining tied the score at 49.

Johnson blocked Angelo Athens’ drive to the hoop on the ensuing possession, drove and scored the go-ahead layup with 11.7 seconds to go to put St. Francis up 51-49, the Lancers’ first lead since there were seven minutes remaining in the third quarter. Athens was fouled going up for a shot with 4.1 seconds remaining, and calmly sank both free throws to tie the game at 51. St. Francis was able to find a seam in the defense and get a shot away from the elbow as time expired, but it bounced off the rim, sending the game to overtime.

Athens finished with 20 points, the final three of which came with 2:29 remaining on overtime. The 6-2 senior guard drew a foul and his shot fell through the hoop after no less than four bounces. He converted the following free throw to give the Bells a 54-51 lead. Williams, who finished with seven points, scored on the ensuing possession to cut the deficit to one point and set up for the frantic finish.

Though Bellarmine (19-1, 10-0 WCAL) led for most of the second half, it was St. Francis that came swinging out of the gate.

After a putback by Stubblefield gave Bellarmine an 8-7 lead, St. Francis went on a 15-0 run over the next three minutes. A Johnson layup was followed by four Mihanovic free throws. Johnson, Williams and sophomore Oscar Pedraza all connected on three-pointers to stretch the lead to 22-8, the largest of the night for either team. Athens stopped the bleeding with two free throws and Ike Ogbogu cut the deficit to 22-12 to end the quarter.

If not for those four points to close out the first quarter, Bellarmine may have been in a world of hurt. Instead, the Bells continued by scoring the first eight points of the second quarter to cut the deficit to two, capped off by a basket from Kruse. The 12-0 run that bridged the last minute of the first quarter and the first three minutes of the second was a product of Bellarmine’s work on both ends of the court.

“The change to our defense was better shot decisions by our offense,” Bellarmine coach Patrick Schneider said. “In the first quarter, our shot decisions were so poor and so rushed that we had no readiness on defense, so every shot they had was wide open. Once we took better care of our shot decisions, that fed into our defense.”

St. Francis did briefly regain control thanks to its bench.

De’jon Fort’s layup ended the Bellarmine run and sophomore Roy Yuan’s three-pointer stretched the lead to 29-21, but Bellarmine responded with the next nine points. The first five came from Jake Wojcik, who finished with 11 points. Athens then sank a pair of free throws and scored on a layup to give the Bells a 30-29 lead before Mihanovic sank one of two free throws to end the first half tied at 30.

Until the final minutes, the second half became the gritty WCAL affair that the St. Francis-Bellarmine rivalry has been known for over the years. The lead was never larger than the 39-33 advantage that Bellarmine held with 2:36 left in the third.

There was little separation between the two teams in all aspects of the game apart from rebounding. Bellarmine finished with a 40-30 advantage on the glass, including 16-10 on the offensive glass. Over the final three quarters and overtime, Bellarmine outrebounded the hosts 35-19. Stubblefield (12 points) and Ogbogu each finished with seven rebounds. Jake Mihanovic pulled down nine rebounds for St. Francis (15-5, 6-4), including five on the offensive glass.

Three of those came in one sequence in the first quarter, which Mihanovic capped off with a layup for two of his 17 points. Johnson, a junior, also finished with 17, including the four in the final minute of regulation and the three-pointer with a minute remaining in overtime to give St. Francis its final lead of the night.

With the win, Bellarmine is in prime position to claim at least a share of the WCAL title.

The Bells travel to Riordan on Wednesday and will host Serra on Saturday. Before the trip to St. Francis, Serra had given Bellarmine its biggest scare in a game that the Bells won 37-34 on an off-balance buzzer-beating three from Athens.

Bellarmine hosts Valley Christian on the 15th before traveling to second-place St. Ignatius on February 18, the final night of WCAL play. St. Ignatius (18-2, 9-1) stayed one game behind the Bells with a 59-56 win over rival Sacred Heart Cathedral (8-12, 1-9).

In other WCAL action, 7-1 junior center and Oregon State commit Jack Wilson had arguably the best game of his career, finishing with 25 points and 10 rebounds as visiting Serra (10-10, 4-6) topped Riordan (7-13, 1-9) 74-62. Serra will host St. Francis on Wednesday. Mitty (11-9, 6-4) moved into a tie for third place with St. Francis as the Monarchs beat host Valley Christian (10-9, 3-7) 59-38. Matt Hicks led Mitty with 15 points, while Joseph Vaughn and Riley Grigsby added 11 apiece.

In Atherton, Menlo-Atherton (17-4) beat Palo Alto (18-3) 58-46 despite facing an early 22-9 deficit. Palo Alto’s only previous losses were three-point defeats at Bellarmine and St. Francis, while Menlo-Atherton has now won 14 of its last 15. Eric Norton scored 22 for the victorious Bears. Though the two are not league opponents, the game may have implications in the CCS Open Division. Both teams are in position to win their respective leagues, so the win will be a major boost for M-A’s playoff resume.