bentley

Create auto career paths for women, managers say April 23 Author: Anisa Jibrell Automotive manufacturers are staffing up for a new wave of innovators to drive technological change, and many realize that they need a more diverse pool of talent -- especially women -- to get the job done.



Continental eyes reorganization Jan. 15 Continental said it is in "early stages" of talks about a structural overhaul, following moves by Delphi and Autoliv to split their operations in two.



Detroit auto show preview: Acura to Ford Jan. 8 A roundup of brands, from Acura to Ford, that will unveil new product at the Detroit auto show.



Bentley preps Bentayga plug-in hybrid Jan. 5 Author: Nick Gibbs Bentley plans to launch a plug-in hybrid version of its Bentayga SUV at the Geneva auto show in March. The Bentayga will be the brand's first electrified vehicle.



Continental to showcase 2 battery charging systems at CES Dec. 13, 2017 Author: Anisa Jibrell Continental has developed two battery charging systems that aim to tackle the obstacles of range, weight and cost often associated with charging technology.



Lamborghini bets on power with Urus SUV Dec. 4, 2017 Author: Luca Ciferri Lamborghini says its new Urus SUV will stand out from rivals because of its high performance. The 650-hp Urus outpowers the 608-hp Bentley Bentayga and the 629-hp Mercedes-Benz G 65 AMG.



Continental sees strong profits ahead as EV push boosts orders Nov. 9, 2017 Continental expects "strong" profit and sales in the fourth quarter as carmakers' accelerating embrace of electric and self-driving technologies boost orders at the company's core automotive business.



Continental, Osram to launch lighting joint venture in 2018 Nov. 6, 2017 Continental and lighting company Osram said they plan to set up a joint venture next year to develop lighting products for the automotive industry.



Continental said to be in talks to buy Argus Cyber Security Oct. 30, 2017 Continental is in advanced talks to buy Israel's Argus Cyber Security, which has developed technology to protect connected cars from hacking, for about $400 million, Israeli media reported on Monday.



Bentley to replace CEO, 3 board members in overhaul Oct. 20, 2017 Author: David Undercoffler Wolfgang Durheimer will step down as CEO of Bentley effective February 1 and be succeeded by Adrian Hallmark, former global strategy director at Jaguar Land Rover. Bentley's heads of engineering, sales and marketing, and human resources are also stepping down in a major overhaul.



Bentley goes all-in on plug-in hybrids Sept. 25, 2017 Author: David Undercoffler Bentley's Bentayga crossover will be the brand's first vehicle to get a plug-in hybrid powertrain as part of a commitment to offer plug-in variants of all its models.

