The estate car is seen by many as the sensible choice on the new car market. However, with such a large variety of estate cars on sale today, there is likely to be a model for most people to buy, whether they want maximum carrying capacity, style, towing ability or even performance.

But what makes a great estate car? Well, having a usable boot is a very important aspect of an estate car, so a rear load bay that has a large floor area, with little in the way of wheelarch intrusion, plus a wide boot opening and a high tailgate that you don't bang your head on are advantageous. Easy-fold rear seats are a desirable addition, while ones that leave a completely flat floor are another plus point.

• Best executive cars on sale

Sheer boot volume isn't enough for the very best estate cars. Models that feature useful storage, whether it's under the floor or to the sides, are winners in our book, while handy items such as 40:20:40 folding rear seats, ski hatches, load rails and boot compartment dividers also go a long way to turning a good estate car into a great one.

While crossovers and SUVs are the current darlings of family car buyers, there's still a lot of appeal in an estate car. Compare a hatchback, estate and crossover of similar size, and it's likely that the estate will have the biggest boot, thanks to its squarer shape. What's more, the load height will be lower than the crossover's, making access easier.

So what estate cars are on offer? Well, there are the hugely practical models such as the Dacia Logan, Skoda Octavia and Superb, the Mercedes E-Class and Volvo V90, while models like the Audi A4 Avant, Mercedes C-Class, BMW 3 Series and 5 Series Tourings and Jaguar XF Sportbrake add some class.

Elsewhere, there are estate versions of family hatchbacks, such as the Vauxhall Astra ST, SEAT Leon ST, VW Golf Estate and Peugeot 308 SW, plus larger cars like the VW Passat Estate, Ford Mondeo Estate and Mazda 6 Tourer, among others.

If you want to compromise between estate car practicality and SUV styling, then the off-road estate is for you. These are usually medium or large estates with extra black body cladding, a raised ride height and four wheel drive, with models ranging from the Skoda Octavia Scout and SEAT Leon X-Perience to high-end models like the Mercedes E-Class All-Terrain and Volvo V90 Cross Country (XC).

Then there are the performance estates. AMG models from Mercedes and Audi's RS 4 Avant and RS 6 Avant deliver devastating pace, while the hot hatch-derived SEAT Leon ST Cupra, VW Golf R Estate and Skoda Octavia vRS Estate cater for specific needs.

Hybrid models come in the form of the Toyota Auris Touring Sports Hybrid and Kia Optima SW, while the plug-in Volkswagen Passat GTE and Volvo V-Series hybrids deliver low running costs, albeit with a minor impact on overall boot space.

Best estate cars to buy in 2018

Best small estate cars

Not all is well in the estate car class, though. As mentioned, the crossover is having an impact on sales, and some makers are pandering to the demand of these models. For instance, while the Peugeot 207 supermini had an SW estate variant, the 208 doesn't - Peugeot launched the 2008 crossover instead. As a result, the small estate car class has shrunk in size even when compared to just a couple of years ago. While estate versions of the aforementioned 207, Renault Clio and Skoda Fabia were all available, it's just the Fabia that is still being built. The only other really small estate is the Dacia Sandero, beyond that, you're in the realm of the compact family estate.

We've rounded up our favourite estate cars currently on the market. Click the links above and to the left to find out which is the right choice for you.