These days we are spoilt for choice when it comes SUVs. There have never been more 4x4 vehicles on the market but that presents its own set of difficulties for car buyers seeking the best one. This large selection of SUVs and 4x4s means lots of choice, but it also makes it easy for potential buyers to get lost in a maze of legroom measurements, boot capacities and infotainment specs as they search for the best SUV for their needs.

Which is why Auto Express is here to help. If you are on the hunt for a bombproof family car, luxurious everyday cruiser or even something to get your petrolhead heart beating, our top 10 SUVs and 4x4s countdown has something for everyone. There’s also a contingent of smaller ‘urban-focused’ SUVs like the Renault Kadjar or Citroen C4 Cactus to consider – you can see our top 10 small SUVs and crossovers here.

Best SUVs and 4x4s to buy now

With demand for vehicles in the SUV sector booming, and car makers unleashing new and more competitive models all the time, we've compiled a list of the 10 best SUVs and 4x4s on sale in the UK to help you find the cars that are worth investigating further. Click the links below to find out more.

Which 4x4 or SUV is right for me?

The good news for SUV buyers is that because there are so many options, irrespective of whether you want to buy or lease your SUV, you need not settle for anything less than perfect. The growth in this sector has largely been fuelled by motorists desiring a commanding driving position, chunky looks and extra grip from 4x4 systems. But there’s more to the SUV package.

The large body of a 4x4 means there's potential for great practicality, so much so that some SUVs can rival MPVs for family-friendly space and versatility. If you're looking for a 7-seater car then a large 4x4 could be a perfect fit, they tend to be more desirable than MPVs as well as matching them for space. With their huge boot space, roof racks and towing capacity they make great cars for going on holiday, too.

• Most reliable 4x4s and SUVs

Towing a caravan or trailer is a common use for these cars - and if that's your plan, the high torque of a large diesel engine is the best choice for load-lugging. Check out our top 10 best tow cars to find out more.

As more and more people are opting for an SUV, carmakers have become embroiled in a fierce competition to offer the best ride, refinement, and comfort. What is perhaps most impressive, is that a select few of these new SUVs even exceed the performance and driving dynamics of the more conventional family cars with a genuinely engaging experience.

Some will have concerns about the ethics of driving a big and potentially inefficient SUV of course, but even those concerns can often be put to rest as many of the models on offer are not much thirstier or more polluting than similarly-sized saloons or family hatchbacks.

• Opinion: Now Rolls-Royce has one, it’s time the SUV got a bit more respect

Efficient hybrid models are becoming increasingly popular too, with great mpg figures from their high-tech drivetrains. Yet despite being known as 4x4s, many of these cars are only two-wheel-drive. So, while in the past choosing an SUV probably meant you needed an off-road capable workhorse or wanted to go trail bashing for fun, the picture is very different now.

Four-wheel drive boosts their capability when the weather turns, too, although models with 2WD will deliver the kind of running costs you'd get with a conventional car if you're looking at the financial bottom line – and there are a number of hybrid and plug-in models available to cut your costs even further. At the other end of the spectrum, the latest range of powerful performance models mean you can get an SUV that can put a smile on your face on twisty roads.

Image 2 of 12 Image 2 of 12

Style is an important factor with many new SUVs and 4x4s, and plenty of models are available with a range of personalisation options to make the car you choose stand out. And at the top end of the SUV spectrum, the most luxurious SUVs have the quality and refinement to match the best limousines for comfort.

Read more of our best car recommendations...