If you have a large family, then a 7-seater is the best kind of car on sale to transport them around. In the past, the easiest way to transport up to seven people would've been in a van with extra seats inside. The other alternative was to buy a big estate car with a pair of occasional rear-facing seats in the boot, although obviously this compromised how much luggage you could carry in the back.

But with the arrival in the 1980s of the Chrysler Voyager in the US, the Renault Espace in Europe and Toyota Space Cruiser in Japan, these cars added some car-like luxury to the formula to create the MPV, or multi-purpose vehicle.

While the original models weren't seven seaters, they soon spawned seven-seat variants, and other models soon followed suit. Cars like the Citroen C4 Picasso (now C4 SpaceTourer), Renault Scenic and Ford C-MAX are now all offered with the option of seven seats, while cars like the Vauxhall Zafira, Ford S-MAX and Galaxy, Toyota Verso, SEAT Alhambra and Volkswagen Sharan are sold exclusively as seven seaters.

But the days of the seven-seat MPV are numbered, as their boxy styling and sensible image is falling out of favour with buyers. Instead buyers are looking at more stylish crossovers and SUVs with seven seats, and there are plenty of those on sale today.

These range in size from models like the Nissan X-Trail and Land Rover Discovery Sport with occasional seats in the back to larger cars like the Volvo XC90 and vast Mercedes GLS-Class. If you want to electrify your driving, then the Tesla Model S and Model X both have seven seats, while there are still plenty of van-based MPVs that can offer seven seats on a budget. Smaller cars like the Citroen Berlingo and Ford Tourneo Connect can be had with up to seven seats, while larger MPVs based on the Transit Custom (Tourneo) and Peugeot Traveller/Citroen SpaceTourer use their boxy shapes to create huge useable space, and can even offer more than seven seats.

With all of these seven seaters on sale, you need to weigh up your needs against what's available. If you only need occasional sixth and seventh seats, then a smaller MPV or crossover will be good enough for your needs, as they will have decent bot space with the added ability of carrying more passengers if you need to. If you're going to carry more than five people on a frequent basis, then a larger model is going to be the order of the day, while larger families who constantly travel might be better suited to a van-based MPV.

Best 7-seat SUVs

The 7-seat SUV or crossover has come a long way in the past few years. They are gaining popularity with buyers who want some style to go with their practicality, and the biggest seven-seat SUVs have more than enough space for most needs. Cars like the Land Rover Discovery, Audi Q7 and Volvo XC90 mix space and decent running costs, while the Mercedes GLS is positively palatial inside, with seven full-size seats and plenty of luxury kit.

Elsewhere, the Land Rover Discovery Sport is more of an occasional seven-seater, as is the Nissan X-Trail, but the Hyundai Santa Fe and Kia Sorento (which share the same running gear) have more space and come loaded with kit.

Best 7-seater cars to buy 2018

Do you own a great 7-seater? Let us know in the comments section below...