CLOSE Watch the Motor City Comic Con floor as thousands walk the aisles on Saturday, the pop culture convention’s busiest day. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press

The Motor City Comic Con offered up multiple prize packages to individual and group costumes. The annual event takes place at the Suburban collection Showcase. May 19, 2018. (Photo: Christopher M. Bjornberg, Special to the Free Press)

Tens of thousands of attendees hit Motor City Comic Con this past weekend, as the Suburban Collection Showplace became metro Detroit's locus for aficionados of pop culture, sci-fi and comics.

The Free Press was in the house the whole weekend. From celebrity interviews to hundreds of photos to reports from the convention floor, here's the best of what we captured.

Cosplay Contest brings out the best in costumes

Contestants depicted everything from Gladiator Hulk to a giant Count Chocula to a whole family of "Masters of the Universe" characters.

Cosplay Contest ... to be continued

What's it like as cosplay contestants wait in line for the competition to start? Watch this video report from Rob St. Mary to find out.

CLOSE Motor City Comic Con: Live with Cosplay Contest competitors! Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press

Time-lapse video draws from more than 10,000 photos

To capture a sense of the event’s preparation – and the throngs attending – the Free Press assembled this time-lapse video that overlooks the complex.

It’s drawn from more than 10,000 photos that were taken between Thursday morning – as set-up heated up and vendors started arriving – until Saturday evening, the completion of the weekend’s busiest day.

(A shorter, one-minute version – Saturday only – is at the top of this story.)

CLOSE Time-lapse video draws from more than 10,000 photos to capture a sense of the event’s preparation – and the throngs attending. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press

The coolest costumes: The portraits

Free Press photographer Romain Blanquart spent Friday and Saturday seeking out the most compelling costumes and coolest characters. He then shot about 70 portraits – all with his cellphone.

The Free Press' deputy photo editor, Rashaun Rucker, also brought his unique eye to the event. See his photos on the Freep Instagram feed.

The inconceivable happens in chat with Wallace Shawn

The actor known for "My Dinner with Andre," "The Princess Bride" and more recently, the TV series "Young Sheldon," talks about his place in acting – and at events like Motor City Comic Con: "I'm rarely cast as a normal human being," says Shawn. "But for the conventions, it's kind of a good thing."

CLOSE Chatting with actor and "The Princess Bride" star Wallace Shawn at Motor City Comic Con on Sunday, May 20, 2018

'Black Panther' artist sketches T'challa

Brian Stelfreeze, the artist who worked on Marvel's 2016 reintroduction of "Black Panther" with writer Ta-Nehisi Coates, stopped by the our booth to draw and chat with Free Press editorial cartoonist Mike Thompson.

CLOSE Talking 'Black Panther' with comic artist Brian Stelfreeze and the Detroit Free Press’ Mike Thompson from Motor City Comic Con. Detroit Free Press, Detroit Free Press

'The Office' stars talk about reboot chances

Oscar Nunez (Oscar) and Kate Flannery (Meredith) chat with the Freep's Julie Hinds about Casual Friday, exotic dancing and rumors that the employees of Dunder Mifflin could return to TV.

CLOSE "The Office" stars Kate Flannery and Oscar Nunez sit down for a live chat with Detroit Free Press writer Julie Hinds at the Motor City Comic Con. Julie Hinds, Detroit Free Press Pop Culture Critic

Valuable comics are focus with Reece's Rare Comics

See the first appearances of Wonder Woman, Spider-Man and Lex Luthor in conversation with Alex Reece of Reece's Rare Comics.

CLOSE A tour of valuable and Golden Age comic books with Reece’s Rare Comics at Motor City Comic Con on Sunday, May 20, 2018.

Celebrity photos abound

This photo gallery by Christopher Bjornberg captures all the big names who were in town for the convention, including Lucy Lawless, Trish Stratus, Tom Welling, Stephen Amell and many more.

'Black Lightning' star Kress Williams gets electric

The star of the hit CW series reflects on the show's critically acclaimed blending of the superhero genre, family drama and social concerns.

Hinds also wrote about the "Black Lightning" at length in this Comic Con preview story.

CLOSE Detroit Free Press writer Julie Hinds sits down with Kress Williams of The CW show "Black Lightning" live from Motor City Comic Con. Julie Hinds, Detroit Free Press Pop Culture Critic

Artist Katie Cook on 'Star Wars,' 'My Little Pony'

"My Little Pony" comic artist and Michigan native Katie Cook gives the lowdown on her path from the College for Creative Studies to creating million-selling comics.

CLOSE Talking “Star Wars” comics, "My Little Pony" and more with artist Katie Cook at Motor City Comic Con. Detroit Free Press, Detroit Free Press

'Nuff Said? Not so!

We've got still more interviews, including with actor Jason Patric, former wrestler and fitness expert Trish Stratus, "Fear the Walking Dead actress Jenna Elfman, "Superman" actor Jack O'Halloran and "Dragon Ball Z" voice actor Christopher Sabat.

We also take a video tour through the aisle of artists, and stop by the Kids Cosplay Contest – both with a photo gallery and a video.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2s2GKG4