The Best AR 15 handguard provides a quality ergonomic profile with heat resistance protection from your rifle gas system and barrel. The rifle handguard should be lightweight, easy to install, and free float to ensure increased rifle accuracy.

USA – -(Ammoland.com)- The modular design of the AR 15 makes it easy to change out parts, and customize the rifle to whatever user configuration you desire.

You can set up the gun for plinking, competition, long-range precision, and tactical applications. The rifle variations are pretty much limited only by the user's imagination.

The most changed part of the modern sporting rifle is the AR-15 handguard. You should determine the gas system as carbine length, mid-length or rifle length. Choose the proper length handguard to make the rifle easier to use and more able to accept useful accessories.

To choose the best AR 15 handguard for your rifle, you’ll need to decide what its primary use will be. Will it be your home defense gun, varmint-hunting rig, or competition rifle? There are many choices that you need to make a final selection. Brownell's has 80 unique models of handguards for the AR- rifle on its website, including .308 versions.

For this review, I selected handguards that suit specific user applications. Each of the AR 15 handguards have useful features for a specific purpose. There are plenty of streamline free-float handguards available. All the selected handguards for this review are streamlined and include a mounting system for attaching accessories. Other handguards that are more specialized might fit your particular purpose better.

The Best AR 15 Handguard List

5) Magpul MOE

The Magpul’s MOE handguard is a great option for beginners who want to try customizing their own AR-15 for the first time. It’s designed to snap into place on any standard AR that has both a delta ring and round or triangular front handguard cap. The Magpul MOE does not need any tools or advanced assembly to install. You push down on the delta ring around the barrel near the receiver, pop out the original handguards, and pop in the MOE replacement. More info on the Magpul MOE Handguard.

The Magpul MOE delivers a comfortable profile, bolt-on rails, tactical mounts, and add-on vertical foregrip . It comes in a variety of colors, giving you lots of choices.

Remember the MOE handguard does not free float the barrel and mounts to the standard delta ring.

4) Midwest Industries Gen II SS Series

The Midwest Industries Gen II handguard is a step up in complexity from snap-in handguard. Free Float handguards improve handling and accessorizing. The Gen II handguard installation includes a break down of the rifle upper and may need replacement parts like a low-profile gas block .

Midwest Industries offers several of different versions of this handguard. Midwest Industries handguards are available with M-Lok or Keymod to attach accessories. You can leave the fore end of your rifle smooth and snag-free.

3) Bravo Company KMR

The “Keymod Modular Rail” handguard from Bravo Company is a handguard featuring the keymod attachment system. It also free floats the barrel and has some neat features. The keymod mounting holes positioned around the handguard provide four “halfway” mounting positions beyond traditional 3, 6, 9 and 12 o’clock. Also, the bottom of the rail is wide with a generous flat, allowing you to rest on a barricade or other object for steady supported position shooting. This handguard is lightweight and strong.

2) Geissele Super Modular Rails SMK MK4

Famous for their AR-15 triggers Geissele Automatics makes advanced AR 15 handguards. The Super Modular Rail (SMR) MK4 combines traditional Picatinny rail with keymod attachment slots. Geissele handguards include its own barrel nut. This handguard is sturdy, lightweight, and versatile. Mounting options let you configure the MK4 any way you want. If you’ve got the Geissele trigger, might as well match it with the handguard, right?

1) A.R.M.S. S.I.R.

The S.I.R. handguard from Atlantic Research Marketing Systems is tops in this list of AR-15 handguards. It’s currently in use by U.S. Special Forces around the world. It’s designed to install quickly without removing the barrel. It’s lightweight and gives plenty of rail-mounting space. The top rail is fixed and the rails located at the 3, 6 and 9 o-clock positions are removable. It attaches to the standard barrel nut and only requires that you remove the delta ring. A.R.M.S. S.I.R. has built-in anti-rotation tabs that help you get the handguard aligned without needing any special tools. All these features are standard and free-floats the barrel, too.

Available for different-length gas systems, and even guns with standard A1- or A2-style carry handle on top of the receiver . Know all these battle-tested, uber-cool, tactical, Tier-One, Operators-Operating-Operationally goodness & functionality will cost you.

Just Do It

There are many AR-15 handguards out there designed to give all sorts of different features, mounting options, and enhancements . Do a little research and choose which handguard you think will work best. You can you improve the handling and performance of your AR-15 with a new handguard. As well you can have the satisfaction of knowing you installed it all by yourself. Check out Ammoland's recent article on Best AR 15 Triggers

Thomas Conroy is a firearms aficionado and writer who lives in the Midwest.

This article updated to reflect changes in product improvements/availability on 06/27/2017.