Lake Shore Drive will shut down for cars and trucks Sunday morning for the 17th annual Bike the Drive, where the city's marquee roadway will be taken over by thousands and thousands of bikers. This year bikers can pedal a 30-mile loop from Bryn Mawr Avenue on the north to 57th Street on the south, with a festival at Grant Park and rest stops along the way. The ride will go rain or shine, but as of now, the forecast is looking sunny and pleasant. The drive start to reopen to auto traffic at 10:30 a.m. Here's what to know if you go. Date: Sunday, May 27, 2018 (rain or shine)

Sunday, May 27, 2018 (rain or shine) Start: 5:30 a.m. (organizers recommend starting by 7 a.m.; Lake Shore Drive will be closed to traffic at 5 a.m.)

5:30 a.m. (organizers recommend starting by 7 a.m.; Lake Shore Drive will be closed to traffic at 5 a.m.) Location: Lake Shore Drive

Lake Shore Drive Route: From Bryn Mawr Avenue south to the Museum of Science and Industry (57th Street).

From Bryn Mawr Avenue south to the Museum of Science and Industry (57th Street). Distance: Up to 30 miles.

Up to 30 miles. Cost: $55-$66 for adults; $17 for riders 17 years of age or younger (Click here to register online.) Miles 2 Bryn Mawr Avenue: LAKE SHORE Entry, rest stop and turnaround BELMONT Fullerton Avenue: Entry and turnaround FULLERTON NORTH CHICAGO Jackson Drive: MONROE Start/finish line and post-ride festival 290 ROOSEVELT CERMAK 55 Oakwood Boulevard: 31ST 35TH Entry and turnaround 43RD 90 47TH Museum of Science and Industry (57th Street): 55TH Entry, rest stop and turnaround

Cyclists ride south at 31st Street during the Bike the Drive in 2017. (Chicago Tribune)

Lake Shore Drive bike schedule

5:30 a.m.: Official start (Lake Shore Drive opens to bicyclists.)

Official start (Lake Shore Drive opens to bicyclists.) 9:30 a.m.: Closures begin (Bicyclists may no longer enter the route.)

Closures begin (Bicyclists may no longer enter the route.) 9:45 a.m.: Checkpoints redirected (Riders will be redirected to the post-ride festival at Butler Field)

Checkpoints redirected (Riders will be redirected to the post-ride festival at Butler Field) 9:45-10:15 a.m.: Rolling closures (Riders will be guided off Lake Shore Drive onto the Lakefront Trail.)

Rolling closures (Riders will be guided off Lake Shore Drive onto the Lakefront Trail.) 10:30-11 a.m.: Car traffic reintroduced to Lake Shore Drive.

(Chicago Tribune)

Getting there

By bike: If arriving after 5 a.m., then cross under Lake Shore Drive at Randolph Street or at the Museum Campus and ride on Columbus Drive to the start/finish line. (Bicyclists will not be allowed to cross over Lake Shore Drive at Monroe Street, Jackson Drive or Balbo Drive.)

If arriving after 5 a.m., then cross under Lake Shore Drive at Randolph Street or at the Museum Campus and ride on Columbus Drive to the start/finish line. (Bicyclists will not be allowed to cross over Lake Shore Drive at Monroe Street, Jackson Drive or Balbo Drive.) Public transit: The Chicago Transit Authority is relaxing its two-bike-per-car policy until 2 p.m. the day of the event. Bikes are also allowed on Metra.

The Chicago Transit Authority is relaxing its two-bike-per-car policy until 2 p.m. the day of the event. Bikes are also allowed on Metra. By car: Soldier Field's North Garage opens at 4 a.m. and parking can be reserved online in advance for $13. Parking also will be available at the garage at the Museum of Science and Industry for $22.

Where registered participants can enter

Bryn Mawr Avenue: Entry, rest stop and turnaround.

Entry, rest stop and turnaround. Fullerton Avenue: Entry and turnaround.

Entry and turnaround. Jackson and Columbus drives: Start/finish line.

Start/finish line. Oakwood Boulevard: Entry and turnaround.

Entry and turnaround. Museum of Science and Industry (57th Street): Entry, rest stop and turnaround.

Joyce Kuechler of Chicago takes a rest after Bike the Drive in 2013. (Chicago Tribune)

Rest stops with light snacks and water

Bryn Mawr Avenue: Northernmost rest stop.

Northernmost rest stop. Jackson and Columbus Drives: Central rest stop.

Central rest stop. Museum of Science and Industry (57th Street): Southernmost rest stop.

Bicyclists must display at all checkpoints

Rider number

Helmet number

Wristband

Divvy bikes are available, but the 30-minute time limit still applies. (Chicago Tribune)

Find a bike

Don't have your own bicycle? Bike rentals are available from the event's partners. Divvy bikes are permitted at the event, but users will incur overtime fees if a Divvy bike is used for more than 30 minutes without redocking.

Tom Skilling's forecast

It should be a sunny day with highs around 90 degrees. Slight chance of rain in the afternoon. More here.