bmw

Toyota still No. 1, Mercedes passes BMW for No. 2 in ranking of most valuable car brands May 28 Author: Douglas A. Bolduc Toyota held on to its title as the world's most valuable car brand for the sixth year in a row while Mercedes passed BMW to finish second for the first time in an annual brand ranking.



BMW sees its electric iNEXT as a crossover May 28 Author: Christiaan Hetzner BMW looks likely to follow Audi's e-tron with a battery-powered full-size crossover, the heart of the premium EV market, when the iNEXT debuts in 2021.



Donald Trump does a favor for BMW and Mercedes May 23 The biggest beneficiaries of President Donald Trump's drive to get China to "play fair" on trade are automakers such as BMW and Mercedes, which export expensive sedans and SUVs from Germany and the U.S. to wealthy customers in the world's biggest market.



BMW, Toyota, Ford at odds with S. Africa over production boost plan May 22 BMW, Toyota and Ford are at odds with South Africa over its plans for them to more than double output and double their work forces in return for tax breaks.



BMW bets on iNext in autonomous race with Mercedes May 17 BMW offered a glimpse of its futuristic self-driving iNext car as the automaker seeks to gain momentum in the race to overtake rival Mercedes in luxury car sales.



EV batteries present new challenges for firefighters May 16 Fires on electric vehicles are rare, but the volatile chemistry of their batteries and the need for special training on how to extinguish them raises new safety questions as automakers are poised to dramatically increase production.



What a $54/month lease offer on $50,000 BMW says about state of EVs May 15 The eye-popping discount on a BMW i3 wasn't a fluke. It's a sign of the daunting economics facing carmakers during the slow shift to electric vehicles.



Gin palaces, majesty and the Parthenon: What people are saying about the Rolls-Royce Cullinan May 15 Author: Jack Walsworth Rolls-Royce is the latest ultraluxury automaker to join the SUV fray, with the Cullinan. Powered by the same 571-hp, 6.75-liter, twin-turbocharged V-12 gasoline engine as the Phantom, the Cullinan is also built on the same Rolls-developed aluminum platform that underpins the flagship sedan and all future vehicles. Here's a roundup of initial reaction to the Cullinan.



AutoNews Now: How shopper scored a $112 lease on BMW i3 May 15 Driving an EV bargain: How shopper scored $112 lease on BMW i3; World's first electrified road; Tesla vet joins Painter venture; Reprieve for Chevy store; Acura RDX output ramps up.



Battery-powered branding May 14 Author: Amy Wilson What's the best way to market the explosion of EVs coming from across the industry? Automakers are trying to figure that out.



Rolls-Royce's 'superluxury' Cullinan will be priciest SUV May 10 Author: Nick Gibbs It's billed as the "most family-oriented, fun-to-drive, superluxury SUV imaginable" and the Rolls-Royce Cullinan will become the world's most expensive SUV when it goes on sale toward the end of the year or early 2019.

