Brett Gardner had his first four-hit game of the season in Tuesday’s 6-5, 10-inning win over the Astros, the most important coming with one out in the bottom of the ninth, when he smacked a two-run home run to tie it.

“That’s my job at the top of the lineup,’’ Gardner said of his two-homer, 4-for-5 night. “Not necessarily the homers, but just to get on base for those guys.”

Tuesday was the latest installment in Gardner’s recent resurgence, which is good news for a lineup that has seen Gardner struggle in the leadoff spot for much of this season.

“He makes this team go,’’ CC Sabathia said of the left fielder. “When he’s on, you’re gonna see this team score a lot of runs.”

Gardner did more than usual against Houston, starting with his second leadoff homer in four games, this one off Charlie Morton. Gardner singled in the second and seventh before coming to the plate with Miguel Andujar on first against Chris Devenski in the ninth.

“I wasn’t sure [it was out],” Gardner said. “I hit it pretty high. … I was just trying to push it out a little bit.”

As for his overall improvement at the plate, Gardner said: “I’m seeing the ball better. And I’ve got good timing.”

Didi Gregorius had his second straight multi-hit game, a further sign he finally might be returning to normal at the plate.

“I’m just trying to stay consistent,’’ Gregorius said. “I’ve been through this slump, but my defense has been there. Hopefully, my offense stays like this.”

Gregorius singled in the third and sixth innings for his first back-to-back multi-hit games since April 24-25. He batted sixth Tuesday with Greg Bird hitting No. 3 for the first time since returning from ankle surgery.

Putting Bird between right-handed hitters Aaron Judge and Giancarlo Stanton was a setup many envisioned before the first baseman got hurt again.



see also Gleyber Torres caps Yankees comeback with more walk-off magic The Yankees made five errors and trailed by two runs...

“I just like him in the middle [of the order], splitting up our righties, whether that’s third, fourth or fifth,’’ Aaron Boone said before the game of Bird, who had a double in five at-bats. “I just like him in there with the right-handed power guys.

“Hopefully we get to a point we’re everything is rolling and then we get settled in and it just becomes a matchup thing.I do like splitting the lefties and spacing them out as best we can. I think that’s ideal, but we’re not always gonna have that. It’s going to be day-to-day and week-to-week.”

The Yankees got five shutout innings out of their bullpen, with Jonathan Holder continuing his recent run of success with two more shutout innings. He has tossed 15 ²/₃ scoreless innings since coming back from Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre. Dellin Betances walked the first two batters he faced in the ninth, but retired the next three. … Adam Warren (back) had his rehab reassigned to Double-A Trenton and is expected to pitch Wednesday.