buick

GM's electric push: Velite 6, Enspire in Beijing April 23 Author: Michael Wayland The first vehicle announced under General Motors' ambitious effort to introduce at least 20 electric or fuel cell vehicles by 2023 will be the Buick Velite 6 for China.



GM, in electric push, sets Buick Velite 6 PHEV, EV for China April 17 Author: Michael Wayland The first vehicle announced under General Motors' ambitious effort to introduce at least 20 electric or fuel cell vehicles by 2023 will be the Buick Velite 6 for China.



GM dealers air grievances with using CDK April 2 Author: Michael Wayland The problems they cited include untimely dealer support, "clunky" functionality and simply not having another GM-approved choice for websites.



For Buick-GMC dealers, profitability is the focus March 23 Author: Michael Wayland Buick-GMC dealers' profitability is not only the top priority for the brand's new national dealer council chairman. It's the top three.



Buick-GMC dealers say they're open to longer factory initiatives March 19 Author: Michael Wayland The Buick-GMC National Dealer Council is open to changing annual company initiatives such as brand and store standards to multiyear programs.



First Shift: Automakers accused of hiding Takata defects March 15 GM, Benz, VW, FCA accused of hiding airbag defects; Audi bracing for tough year; Report: No easy way to skirt tariffs; Magna, Lyft to co-develop AV tech; Car backs without brands.



Buick, Lexus score marketing points during March Madness March 15 Author: Jackie Charniga Buick and Lexus will put the game in customer's hands during March Madness, betting on NCAA partnerships for consumer engagement and marketplace penetration.



First Shift: Buick vehicles without the 'Buick' badge March 13 'Buick' name stripped from Envision, rest of '19 lineup - reports; VW to expand EV output; UAW accuses Tesla of retaliation; GM's new HR boss; Volvo aims S60 at young, affluent.



Yes, that's a Buick — just without the 'Buick' name badge March 13 Author: Jackie Charniga Starting with the 2019 model year, Buick vehicles in North America will no longer bear the name.



GM: Double-digit declines for cars, pickups March 1 Author: Michael Wayland Sales of redesigned crossovers such as the Chevrolet Traverse and Equinox couldn't outweigh double-digit declines of cars and pickups for GM in February.



Buick Envision gets refresh and price cut Feb. 26 Author: Michael Wayland The $2,000 base price cut aims to increase sales and give owners of the brand's entry-level Encore an easier climb.

