OVERLAND PARK, Kansas –-(Ammoland.com)- Bushnell, an industry leader in high-performance optics, announces the signing of Tiffany Piper to Bushnell’s Ambassador/Shooting Team. She will represent Bushnell at Action Pistol, IPSC, Steel Challenge and 3-Gun competitions, as well as assist with the development of new products.

A competitive shooter from New Zealand, Piper has won five consecutive New Zealand national titles, five consecutive national junior titles and was part of the 2008 and 2014 World Cup champion ladies team. Piper won her first NRA National Action Pistol Championship (commonly known as the Bianchi Cup, and largely considered the most prestigious action pistol competition in the world) in 2009 as a Junior. She won four consecutive Bianchi Cup Junior Championships in a row. In 2016, Piper won the Bianchi Cup Women’s Championship.

“We’re extremely excited to have Tiffany on the Bushnell shooting team,” said Matt Rice, Brand Manager for Bushnell. “She is one of the up and coming stars in action shooting, and is a great example to all of the young shooters out there. The fact that she choose to use Bushnell speaks to the quality and performance of our products.”

Piper got her start competing with air pistol as a 10-year-old. She entered her first Bianchi Cup when she was just 13 and has consistently placed among the best in the world, earning a NRA Gold Action Pistol Distinguished badge.

“I’m excited to partner with Bushnell,” said Piper. “In competitive shooting, absolute performance from your optics is essential. Bushnell Optics give me a perfect sight picture and allow me to compete to my utmost potential.”

For more information on Piper, check out her Facebook fan page.

About Bushnell

Bushnell, a Vista Outdoor brand, is one of the most recognizable and trusted names in precision hunting, tactical and recreational optics and accessories. For more information, visit here.

About Vista Outdoor Inc.

Vista Outdoor is a leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of consumer products in the growing outdoor sports and recreation markets. The company operates in two segments, Shooting Sports and Outdoor Products, and has a portfolio of well-recognized brands that provides consumers with a wide range of performance-driven, high-quality and innovative products for individual outdoor recreational pursuits. Vista Outdoor products are sold at leading retailers and distributors across North America and worldwide. Vista Outdoor is headquartered in Utah and has manufacturing operations and facilities in 13 U.S. States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico along with international customer service, sales and sourcing operations in Asia, Australia, Canada, and Europe. For news and information, visit www.vistaoutdoor.com or follow us on Twitter @VistaOutdoorInc and Facebook at www.facebook.com/vistaoutdoor.