By StoryStudio

















































Image 1 of / 13 Caption Close Image 2 of 13 Image 3 of 13 Image 4 of 13 Image 5 of 13 Image 6 of 13 Image 7 of 13 Image 8 of 13 Image 9 of 13 Image 10 of 13 Image 11 of 13 Image 12 of 13 Image 13 of 13 Butte County: Explore your Sense of Adventure 1 / 13 Back to Gallery

Don’t tell the biologists but we actually have more than five senses. Sure, we all know about smell, touch, taste, sight and sound, but what about our social sense and, of course, our sense of adventure? Should you find yourself wanting to explore these senses I suggest you travel straight to Butte County, home to sensory indulgence on the grandest of scales.

Like most things about us, our desire for adventure varies greatly from person to person. For some, strolling a gentle trail is paradise. For others, if we haven’t earned our burn with serious elevation changes we’ve hardly been outdoors.

It’s the same with traditional senses. Compare craving for floral, fruity, hoppy IPA with your taste for sublime syrah. Butte County takes care of both palates just fine. Speaking of palettes, here’s a look at why Butte County is in full bloom from waterfalls to wildflowers and wineries.

Step into the Fresh Air

Most of us can walk a good while when the path is flat, which makes the 9-mile, out and back, trip around Paradise Lake an achievable goal for the moderately fit. Though Chico and neighboring Oroville share a hardcore outdoor adventure reputation, there are many other excursions akin to the Paradise Lake Trail throughout Butte County.

Consider Table Mountain should you care to get above it all. This wildflower mecca is home to gorgeous vernal pool wildflowers highlighted by the snowmelt tumult of Phantom Falls. The Feather Falls trail is more demanding but the walk along the Fall River into the Plumas National Forest offers a path for adventurers of all levels. A casual 9 mile loop or a more arduous 7 mile trek provides an ideal intro to Butte County’s spectacular environment. The climax of a day spent coursing through alpine meadows and oak studded woodlands is a majestic 410 foot waterfall. There’s even a chance you’ll come upon one of nature’s favorite fireworks: millions of migrating ladybugs.

Do Tread with Me

Regardless of how studded your tires may be you’ll find a road or trail just begging to be tread upon. Budding road cyclists can tour the Durham Loop, a level, 20 to 25 mile ride through the upper Sacramento Valley farming communities. More experienced riders dip into the famous Honey Run Road Loop, a steady climb that miraculously lets out onto a gradual, and much safer, descent back to Chico. Three thousand bikers arrive like honeybees every April for the Wildflower Century. The buzz this iconic tour has generated over the years is gold worth tasting.

It’s no surprise mountain bikes were invented in Northern California when you consider trails like Bidwell Park’s Upper Park North Rim. It’s a series of twelve of the more challenging single tracks in Butte County due to the healthy climbs and technical descents upon mostly exposed lava cap. Intermediates can hop their rocks on the Middle Trail, which features short climbs and nice chunky rock bits. The 60-miles of advanced trails in the Colby Mountain Lookout out of Butte Meadows area established its legendary status among serious riders decades ago though they often remain miraculously solitary most days.

The (Good!) Life Aquatic

You don’t have to pedal, fish or frolic far in Butte County to see why Chico anchors so many “most livable” city lists from Outside to Sunset magazines and beyond. There just aren’t a lot of places on the planet that seamlessly combine a day treading dirt cycling or hiking with breathtaking watering holes for freshening up. Bear Hole beckons in upper Bidwell Park, while Oroville’s Forebay Aquatic Center invites cooling off followed by a spectrum of activities such as kayaking, sailing and even Stand Up Paddleboard (SUP) yoga.

There’s more than enough water adventure for everyone here, so even if pedaling and plunging isn’t your thing you can head to Lake Oroville, the second largest reservoir in California, to cast for small and largemouth bass, Chinook salmon, rainbow and brown trout as well as mythical eye popping sturgeon. An ideal family locale, the 167-miles of shoreline holds swimming and snorkeling coves and a plethora of picnic spots.

Speaking of Refreshments

There’s only one birthplace of the craft brew movement and its Butte County. Sierra Nevada Brewery’s Pale Ale provided that initial blessed departure from pilsner for many of us. Today the Chico-based state-of-the-art, environmentally sustainable brewery still experiments with the hops steps away from the beautiful brewpub and the Big Room, Chico’s preeminent concert venue. And yes, Butte County is big enough for more than one brewery so don’t miss other worthy stops on the tasting trail such as Miner’s Alley Brewing and Lassen Cidery. Sample some spirits and fruit of the vine at Hooker Oak Distillery, Almendra Winery & Distillery in Durham and Purple Line Urban Winery, located just one block off the Feather River in downtown Oroville.





Grana’s Jeff King creates luscious menus from farmers’ markets and local farms. In Oroville The Exchange invites you into an upscale bar setting surrounded by live music and delicious tapas. Taps and tapas, pretty refreshing to say the least.

Butte County’s legacy has always been tied to agriculture. In fact, Chico founder John Bidwell is considered a “founding father of modern California agriculture.” Home to some of the state’s finest olive oils, fruits and nuts, local farms offer tremendous visitor opportunities along the Sierra Oro Farm Trail. An easy-to-use map highlights local farmers, winemakers and even orchard operators with intimate tasting rooms who can’t wait to share their stories. Of course Chico, Oroville and Paradise Farmers’ Markets provide yet another opportunity to taste Butte County provender.

Whether you’re into the arts, outdoors, or like most locals, a combination of both, Butte County will take your breath away as if you’re climbing Humboldt Peak – which, by the way, you can also do.