cadillac

Cadillac's virtual reality project has 'no limits,' innovation head says May 11 Author: Alexa St. John Dealers can get a head start marketing Cadillac's XT4 compact premium crossover not with traditional on-site inventory, but instead with virtual reality.



First Shift: Ford expects F-150 disruptions to hurt earnings May 10 Ford expects F-150 disruptions to hurt earnings; Cadillac after the ATS; GM Korea rescue plan; NTSB probes Tesla crash; Waymo way ahead in AVs?; Mini honors royal wedding.



LUXURY: Mercedes maintains luxe lead over BMW, Lexus May 1 Mercedes-Benz USA, propelled by strong demand for SUVs, topped the luxury U.S. sales race in April and continues to outpace its nearest rivals, No. 2 BMW and No. 3 Lexus, year to date.



Cadillac polishes all-new, 3-row SUV April 23 Author: Richard Truett Cadillac's next all-new vehicle -- the XT6 -- is taking shape and taking to the road for testing.



AutoNews Now: Will lease deal give new Accord a boost? April 23 Will lease deal give Accord a boost?; Court rules against delaying CAFE penalty hike; Ford's 2-cylinder feat; Peek at Cadillac XT6, Mercedes-Maybach SUV; When Kanye tweeted Elon.



Why GM has one of its own running Caddy again April 22 Author: Michael Wayland In ousting Johan de Nysschen and replacing him with Steve Carlisle, a company loyalist in the vein of CEO Mary Barra, GM appears to be signaling its desire to bring Cadillac back into the fold under a single, unified corporate vision that emphasizes speed and measurable return on investment.



Ousted Cadillac chief de Nysschen: 'It's not personal, it's business' April 19 Author: Michael Wayland Johan de Nysschen unapologetically challenged leadership and the Cadillac team, while drawing the ire of many U.S. dealers with his ambitious -- and contentious -- Project Pinnacle plan to overhaul the brand and its retailers.



AutoNews Now: Tough task for 'back-to-basics' Cadillac boss April 19 Tough task for 'back-to-basics' Cadillac boss; Ally management shakeup; Infiniti China push, 'Avengers' ad; FCA profit-margin goal: Beat GM, Ford; Sales weaken in Europe.



Cimarrons, class and 'how I roll': De Nysschen riffs, quips April 18 Author: Anisa Jibrell Johan de Nysschen, the ousted head of Cadillac who helped Volkswagen AG's Audi brand achieve U.S. prominence a decade ago and later steered Infiniti, has been one of the auto industry's most outspoken executives. Here's a look at some of his memorable quotes through the years.



GM seeks faster Cadillac revival, parts with de Nysschen April 18 Author: David Phillips Michael Wayland GM, seeking an accelerated revival at its flagship luxury brand, appointed Steve Carlisle president of Cadillac, replacing Johan de Nysschen, who will leave the automaker.



GM dangles $10,000 Cadillac Escalade discount to fend off Lincoln Navigator April 16 General Motors is stepping up its defense of the Cadillac Escalade SUV by offering $10,000 discounts to some current customers to keep them from straying to the hot-selling new Lincoln Navigator.

