Buy Photo John Engler, Michigan State Interim President and former governor of Michigan, talks with Host Carol Cain about the controversy surrouding MSU at the Detroit Free Press Breakfast Club Series at the Townsend Hotel in Birmingham, Mich. on Thursday, May 10, 2018. (Photo: Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Five hundred million dollars. That is a lot of money, to anyone or any organization, let alone a public institution of higher learning that relies on funding primarily from working families (whether it be from the tuition they pay or, the dollars the state contributes to institutions through taxes). Yet, while no dollar amount can adequately address the carnage created by Dr. Larry Nassar, the recent settlement does provide Michigan State University a chance to move forward.

How the school moves forward, however, is the next great challenge for a university that many of us attended and remember our years there with fondness. When interim President John Engler sat with me in front of a packed house at the Townsend Hotel a couple of weeks ago at the Free Press' inaugural Breakfast Club speaker series forum, we talked a good deal about the past, present and future.

In a recent article by Free Press higher education reporter David Jesse, many of the reforms people are suggesting were laid out in a clear and concise manner. Whether you believe in the reforms articulated or not, and irrespective of your opinion of the current board of trustees, one thing is universally clear: Michigan State University needs new, independent, “fresh eyes” leadership in several key positions.

Engler seems to understand that. Since taking the reins on Feb. 5, he has appointed several new people, including, just this week, former state Supreme Court Justice Bob Young as the school’s full-time general counsel; longtime university professional Kathy Wilbur as executive vice president of governmental relations; and Emily Gerkin-Guerrant as the university’s top communications voice.

Read more:

However, the two most important positions that clearly require new and independent thinking are the search for the university’s new president and the future leader of the Athletic Department.

Engler has gone on record saying he has no interest in the president's position and looks forward to helping the university transition. Further, while Vice President and Secretary to the Board Bill Beekman is doing a credible caretaker job as interim AD, he's not the long-term solution for a department that, frankly, has more concerns than just the Nassar debacle.

At the Breakfast Club, Engler appropriately acknowledged that the behavior of student athletes (particularly in the visible sports of football and men's basketball) grab the headlines more than any other unit on campus. Indeed, Nassar problems aside, it is the spotlight that was pointed at alleged misconduct of football and men’s basketball players that led to the university going beyond that tragedy and addressing its need for a safer campus environment.

While college athletics is a big business, it is also one that cries out for proven administrative leadership, particularly when the tough jobs open up. There is arguably no tougher AD job in the country than MSU’s right now. Similar to its new prospective president, the position requires someone who was not a part in any way, shape or form of the culture that has created Michigan State’s issues.

With the announced decision of two trustees (Brian Breslin and Mitch Lyons) not to seek re-election, there will be at least two new board members elected this fall. NCAA and state attorney general investigations are ongoing with respect to the conduct of all at the university (including the trustees). For now, however, MSU must look outside for these two important positions because, if the last several months have shown us anything, it is that current Spartan culture has become too insular in its approach to issues of significance.

My guess is that Engler knows that. While rumors abound that head coaches at MSU are supporting Beekman (in large part because he is a part of the Spartan culture), all eyes will be watching how much Engler pushes back on his board if it also supports Beekman’s full-time retention (which it is rumored some do). Will Engler, as he has done with other positions, work to fill the position externally himself or ensure that a new president receives the opportunity to do so?

Nassar’s settlement is only one small step and the ultimate fate of the board of trustees remains unclear. That said, Engler needs to ensure he leaves the university with a completely new way of thinking and doing its daily business.

From the president on down.

Contact Carol Cain: 313-222-6732 or clcain@cbs.com. She is senior producer/host of “Michigan Matters,” which airs 11:30 a.m. Sundays on CBS 62. See Tammy Carnrike, Rich Studley and Douglass Diggs on this Sunday’s show.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xhAIqV