Contact Assembly and Senate Committee Members Today

Several pro- and anti-gun bills are scheduled to be heard in their respective committees on Monday, April 16 and Tuesday, April 17. Please use the TAKE ACTION button below to contact the members of the respective committee and urge them to SUPPORT pro-gun bills and OPPOSE anti-gun bills.

On Monday, April 16, the Assembly Revenue and Taxation Committee is scheduled to hear anti-gun bill AB 2497 at 2:30pm in State Capitol room 126.

Assembly Bill 2497, sponsored by Assembly Member Jim Cooper (D-9), would place an additional tax on firearms and ammunition for an unspecified amount to fund police officers and counselors at schools. While the NRA supports improving school security, it is unjust to saddle gun owners with additional taxes to fund programs that should be of concern to all Californians.

On Monday, April 16, the Senate Natural Resources and Water Committee is scheduled to hear pro-gun bill SB 1311 upon adjournment of session in State Capitol room 112.

Senate Bill 1311, sponsored by Senator Tom Berryhill (R-8), would create the annual sportsman’s license that affords the holder of the license the same privileges as the annual hunting and fishing licenses as a single license. SB 1311 would help generate participation and encourage the next generation of sportsman conservationists by providing a convenient and economical way to secure the necessary licensing for hunting and fishing activities in the Golden State.

On Tuesday, April 17, the Assembly Public Safety Committee is scheduled to hear pro-gun bills, AB 2860 and AB 3026, at 9am in State Capitol room 126.

Assembly Bill 2860, sponsored by Assembly Member Travis Allen (R-72), would repeal the “roster” requirements for handguns to be sold through firearms dealers. Firearms that are not on the roster are not inherently unsafe. In fact law enforcement is generally exempt from the handgun roster. Instead of weeding out unsafe firearms, the roster has served to limit the number of handgun models that are available for sale in California by requiring certain features and testing, some which are not offered by any manufacturers. Because of the roster requirements, no new model semi-automatic handguns have been added to the roster in over five years. By removing the roster requirement, Californian’s will have increased options when it comes to exercising their Second Amendment rights.

Assembly Bill 3026, sponsored by Assembly Member Melissa Melendez (R-67), would improve California’s concealed carry permit system by defining “good cause” and requiring that the issuing authority “shall” issue a permit if the statutorily required criteria is met. In addition, AB 3026 creates the ability for non-residents to apply for a California permit.

On Tuesday, April 17, the Senate Public Safety Committee is scheduled to hear anti-gun bill, SB 1100 and pro-gun bill, SB 1382, at 8:30 am in State Capitol room 4203.

Senate Bill 1100, sponsored by Senator Anthony Portantino (D-25), would place further restrictions on law abiding citizens by expanding the current one gun a month restriction for handguns to include all guns and raises the purchase age for long guns to 21.

Senate Bill 1382, sponsored by Senator Andy Vidak (R-14),would expand the vehicle storage options for gun owners by authorizing the use of a locking toolbox or utility box in pickup trucks or other vehicles that do not contain a trunk.

AB 2103 and AB 2151 are eligible for a vote on the Assembly floor at any time. Please use the TAKE ACTION button above to contact your Assembly Member urging him/her to OPPOSE AB 2103 and SUPPORT AB 2151.

Assembly Bill 2103, sponsored by Assembly Member Todd Gloria (D-78), would add certain requirements in addition to the already mandated training courses for a citizen to obtain a concealed carry license. Currently, concealed carry permit holders are already required to receive up to 16 hours training prior to receiving a permit and at least four hours of additional training every two years prior to renewal.

Assembly Bill 2151, sponsored by Assembly Member Adam Gray (D-21),would help make hunting more affordable for youths by reducing the cost of certain big game tags for youth hunters.

Continue to check your inbox and the California Stand and Fight web page for updates on issues impacting your Second Amendment rights and hunting heritage in California.