The Chronicle urges all voters to take part in the June 5 election. Here is our guide to the ballot measures and races that state and local voters will be deciding. For additional campaign coverage, visit our Election 2018 page. For details on how and where to vote, see the state's website

What are you looking for?

U.S. Senate Dianne Feinstein is seeking her fifth full term. The Democrat’s main opposition is coming from the left — state Sen. Kevin de León, author of California’s main sanctuary state law. The Chronicle recommends Dianne Feinstein Our editorial Our total coverage U.S. Senate

Governor A large field that includes former mayors of San Francisco and Los Angeles is running to succeed the termed-out Gov. Jerry Brown. On the issues: Housing Infrastructure Climate change Education Health The Chronicle recommends Gavin Newsom Our editorial Our total coverage Governor

Lieutenant governor The winner gets to sit on several state commissions for the next four years and take over if the governor is incapacitated. The Chronicle recommends Jeff Bleich Our editorial Our total coverage Lieutenant governor

Insurance commissioner Steve Poizner, who once held the post as a Republican, is running for it again, this time as an independent. Two Democrats are his main competition. The Chronicle recommends Steve Poizner Our editorial Our total coverage Insurance commissioner

Treasurer John Chiang is leaving the job to run for governor. A political veteran and a newcomer are the main candidates looking to succeed him. The Chronicle recommends Fiona Ma Our editorial Our total coverage Treasurer

State superintendent of public instruction A Los Angeles reformer, a Bay Area Assembly member and a former Solano County community college administrator compete to run the state Department of Education. The Chronicle recommends Marshall Tuck Our editorial Our total coverage State superintendent of public instruction

Board of Equalization Four candidates are running for a seat on a state agency that has lost most of its previous duties. The Chronicle recommends No endorsement Our editorial

Secretary of state Alex Padilla, running for a second term, has two main challengers, one of them a fellow Democrat. The Chronicle recommends Alex Padilla Our editorial Our total coverage Secretary of state

Controller Democrat Betty Yee is running for re-election, facing a Republican who is seeking public office for the first time. The Chronicle recommends Betty Yee Our editorial Our total coverage Controller

Attorney general Incumbent Xavier Becerra, appointed to the post in 2015, is facing a strong challenge from a fellow Democrat, Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones. The Chronicle recommends Xavier Becerra Our editorial Our total coverage Attorney general

State Prop. 68 The $4.1 billion bond measure would fund park improvements, clean-water projects and flood-protection efforts. Pros: Prop. 68 would help ensure clean water supplies, better parks and strengthened disaster-aid efforts. Cons: The state already has too much debt and can’t afford another multibillion-dollar obligation. The Chronicle recommends Yes on State Prop. 68 Our editorial Our total coverage State Prop. 68

State Prop. 69 Assures that the estimated $5 billion a year to be raised by the 12-cents-per-gallon increase in the state’s gas tax will go toward asphalt work and transportation improvements. Pros: Ensures that Legislature won’t divert money intended to pay for better roads and transportation to unrelated purposes. Cons: Doesn’t protect $1 billion in vehicle weight fees collected since 2011 from being diverted for non-road uses. The Chronicle recommends Yes on State Prop. 69 Our editorial

State Prop. 70 Would give state GOP lawmakers a say over cap-and-trade policy by requiring a two-thirds legislative vote for its renewal. Pros: Prop. 70 would ensure that cap-and-trade money is spent on high-priority programs rather than legislators’ “pet projects.” Cons: Changing the needed vote from majority to two-thirds would lead to legislative gridlock. The Chronicle recommends No on State Prop. 70 Our editorial

State Prop. 71 Delays an election result from taking effect until all votes are counted, not just the votes tallied through election night. Pros: More people are voting by mail, and those ballots may not be tallied for several days after election day. Prop. 71 would guard against a measure taking effect that might later have to be undone. Cons: The measure will unnecessarily delay the implementation of many voter-approved initiatives. The Chronicle recommends Yes on State Prop. 71 Our editorial

State Prop. 72 Exempts property assessment increase for homeowners who install rainwater recovery systems. Pros: With California facing the possibility of increasingly severe droughts, people who take steps to conserve rainwater should not face a tax penalty. Cons: No opposing argument has been filed. The Chronicle recommends Yes on State Prop. 72 Our editorial

Regional Measure 3 Tolls on every bridge in the Bay Area except the Golden Gate would go up $3 over the next several years to pay for transportation improvements. Pros: Bay Area roads and transit systems are deteriorating, and this would provide funds for improvements to BART, Muni and other transit systems, and would ease freeway bottlenecks. Cons: Many commuters can’t afford the toll increases, and the officials who allocate funding from the measure would not be accountable. The Chronicle recommends Yes on Regional Measure 3 Our editorial Our total coverage Regional Measure 3

S.F. mayor Four main candidates — two supervisors, a former supervisor and a former state senator who also had been a supervisor — are competing to fill out the term of the late Mayor Ed Lee. On the issues: Homelessness Transportation Tech Budget The Chronicle recommends London Breed Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. mayor

S.F. Prop. A Authorizes the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission to issue bonds for clean energy projects, with approval from the Board of Supervisors. Pros: Allows the SFPUC to create bonds to purchase equipment like solar panels and electric-vehicle charging stations and generally expand the city’s clean-energy infrastructure. Cons: Shifts authority to issue bond debt to city agencies and lawmakers, and away from voters. The Chronicle recommends Yes on S.F. Prop. A Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. A

S.F. Prop. B Requires appointed members of city boards and commissions established by the City Charter to give up their seats when they file to run for state or local office. Pros: Helps eliminate potential conflicts of interest and abuses of power while codifying a long-accepted, if unofficial, city policy. Cons: Forcing city commissioners and board members to relinquish their seats could dissuade them from running for higher office. The Chronicle recommends Yes on S.F. Prop. B Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. B

S.F. Prop. C Raises taxes on commercial landlords to 3.5 percent, mostly to fund child care and education. Pros: Helps relieve pressures on San Francisco families by providing a dedicated revenue stream of $146 million annually to fund and potentially expand early childhood education and caregiving services. Cons: The commercial real estate market is volatile, and commercial landlords could pass on additional costs to their tenants, potentially creating an incentive for them to relocate. Prop. C also competes with Prop. D — only the measure that secures the most votes will be enacted. The Chronicle recommends No on S.F. Prop. C Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. C

S.F. Prop. D Raises taxes on commercial landlords to 1.7 percent, mostly to fund housing- and homelessness-related services. Pros: Addresses San Francisco’s homelessness and housing-affordability crises by bringing in $70 million annually to fund homeless services and for low- to middle-income housing. Cons: The commercial real estate market is volatile, and $70 million a year will go only so far toward curbing homelessness and housing affordability. Prop. D also competes with Prop. C -- only the measure that secures the most votes will be enacted. The Chronicle recommends Yes on S.F. Prop. D Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. D

S.F. Prop. E Allows a city ordinance banning the sale of flavored tobacco products to take effect. Pros: Banning flavored tobacco products, include menthol cigarettes, will help curb the use of deadly, addictive substances — many of which are appealing to children. Cons: Bans a suite of products that can already be sold only to adults. Banning flavored tobacco products may also have an adverse impact on small business owners like corner-store operators, who rely on the sale of such products. The Chronicle recommends Yes on S.F. Prop. E Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. E

S.F. Prop. F Requires the city to establish, fund and operate a program providing legal representation to any residential tenant facing eviction. Pros: Creating a system that provides no-cost legal representation to anyone at risk of losing their home could help curtail displacement and ensure that tenants know their rights. Cons: The measure’s goals could be accomplished legislatively, and by law, future policymakers would not be required to fund such a program, which would cost between $4.2 million and $5.6 million annually. The Chronicle recommends No on S.F. Prop. F Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. F

S.F. Prop. G Authorizes the city to collect an annual parcel tax of $298 through 2038 for investment in the San Francisco Unified School District. Pros: Would help to raise wages for educators and other school workers, hire more workers at high-needs schools, attract and retain high-quality teachers to San Francisco, and invest in technology improvements. Cons: The tax would be a specific burden for residential property owners. The Chronicle recommends Yes on S.F. Prop. G Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. G

S.F. Prop. H Authorizes the San Francisco Police Department to purchase electronic stun guns and sets the city’s policy for using them. Pros: Would create a fixed timeline for equipping police officers with Tasers and for implementing the policies for their use. Cons: Would concentrate the policy-making power over the use of Tasers with the Police Officers Association, the SFPD’s union, and away from the Police Commission, the department’s policy-making body. If passed, the measure could only be amended by voters or a supermajority vote by the Board of Supervisors. The Chronicle recommends No on S.F. Prop. H Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. H

S.F. Prop. I Adopts a policy to refrain from encouraging professional sports teams from other cities to relocate to San Francisco Pros: Highlights the potentially negative impacts associated with luring a sports team away from its home city, like the pending move by the Golden State Warriors from Oakland to San Francisco. Cons: The measure is nonbinding and is motivated by vague notions of not coveting a neighbor’s possessions. The Chronicle recommends No on S.F. Prop. I Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. Prop. I

S.F. supervisor, District Eight Incumbent Jeff Sheehy, who was appointed by the late Mayor Ed Lee, faces urban land use attorney Rafael Mandelman to fill out the term of former Supervisor Scott Wiener. The two will face each other again in November. The Chronicle recommends Rafael Mandelman Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. supervisor, District Eight

S.F. judges Four lawyers in the public defender’s office are running to unseat judges who were appointed by Republican governors. The Chronicle recommends Retain Judges Curtis Karnow, Cynthia Ming-mei Lee, Andrew Cheng and Jeffrey Ross Our editorial Our total coverage S.F. judges

South Bay judge recall In 2016, Judge Aaron Persky gave what critics believed was a lenient sentence to a Stanford University student who had sexually assaulted a woman outside a campus party. Those critics are trying to unseat him. The Chronicle recommends No on South Bay judge recall Our editorial Our total coverage South Bay judge recall