Friday, May 25, was the deadline for bills to pass fiscal committees in the house of origin and Friday, June 1, is the deadline to pass the chamber of origin. Below is the status of several firearm-related bills that made it out of the fiscal committees and are eligible for floor votes this week.

Senate:

Pro-Hunting SB 1311 and anti-gun bills SB 1100, SB 1487, and SJR 24 are eligible for votes on the Senate floor. Please use the TAKE ACTION button below and respectfully ask your State Senator to SUPPORT SB 1311 and OPPOSE SB 1100, SB 1487, and SJR 24.

Senate Bill 1311, sponsored by Senator Tom Berryhill (R-8), would create the annual sportsman’s license that affords the holder of the license the same privileges as the annual hunting and fishing licenses. SB 1311 would help generate participation and encourage the next generation of sportsman conservationists by providing a convenient and economical way to secure the necessary licensing for hunting and fishing activities in the Golden State.

Senate Bill 1100, sponsored by Senator Anthony Portantino (D-25), would place further restrictions on law-abiding citizens by expanding the current one-gun-a-month restriction for handguns to include all guns and raises the purchase age for long guns to 21.

Senate Bill 1487, sponsored by Senator Henry Stern (D-27), would prohibit the possession of certain African species of wildlife. The true goal of the bill is to ensure that a lawful U.S. hunter is not allowed to bring home a hunting trophy—even though the animal was legally taken and the hunter has the approval of the U.S. Federal Government.

Senate Joint Resolution 24, sponsored by Senator Hannah-Beth Jackson (D-19), would urge the Congress of the United States to reauthorize and strengthen the federal “assault weapons” ban and would urge Congress to pass, and the President to sign, the federal Assault Weapons Ban of 2018. It would additionally call on the California Public Employee’ Retirement System (CalPERS) to engage with companies that produce or sell firearms and determine a method for those companies to withdraw from the sale or production of firearms, or produce a plan for CalPERS to divest its holdings from those companies. The reauthorization of an “assault weapons” ban would burden the self-defense rights of law-abiding Americans without meaningfully addressing the problems it’s purportedly designed to address, it would not impact overall gun death rates, and there is no evidence it would prevent mass shootings.

Assembly:

Anti-gun bill AB 2382 is eligible for a vote on the Assembly floor. Please use the TAKE ACTION above and respectfully urge your Assembly Member to OPPOSE AB 2382.

Assembly Bill 2382, sponsored by Assembly Member Mike Gipson (D-64), would require precursor firearms parts to be sold/transferred through a licensed precursor parts dealer in a similar process to the new laws regarding ammunition purchases. It would further create a new crime for transfer of precursor parts without the involvement of a licensed precursor parts dealer to anyone under 21 years of age or prohibited from owning firearms. Precursor parts include items such as barrels, ammunition feedings devices and upper receivers.

The following bills have been referred to the Senate Public Safety Committee and are scheduled to be heard on Tuesday, June 12.

Assembly Bill 3, sponsored by Assembly Member Rob Bonta (D-18), would raise the age to purchase firearms and ammunition to 21 years old.

Assembly Bill 2103, sponsored by Assembly Member Todd Gloria (D-78), would add certain requirements in addition to the already mandated training courses for a citizen to obtain a concealed carry license. Currently, concealed carry permit holders are already required to receive up to 16 hours training prior to receiving a permit and at least four hours of additional training every two years prior to renewal.

The following bills have been referred to the Senate Natural Resources and Water Committee and are scheduled to be heard on Tuesday, June 12.

Assembly Bill 986, sponsored by Assembly Member James Gallagher (R-3), would reduce hunting license fees for veterans.

Assembly Bill 2151, sponsored by Assembly Member Adam Gray (D-21), would help make hunting more affordable for youths by reducing the cost of certain big game tags for youth hunters.

Continue to check your inbox and the California Stand and Fight web page for updates on issues impacting your Second Amendment rights and hunting heritage in California.