BY ETHAN KASSEL

Capuchino 42, Mills 40

A.J. Macaraeg’s three-pointer at the buzzer, his only points of the game, thwarted a dramatic Mills comeback and gave host Capuchino a thrilling rivalry win.

Capuchino held a seemingly safe 39-24 lead with 5:35 to play before Mills unleashed a vicious 16-0 run to take a 40-39 lead with 30 seconds to play. Morgan Lou scored nine of his team-high 14 points over the five-minute span, including a three-point play that started the run and an elbow jumper that momentarily looked like it would give the Vikings the win. Mills even forced a miss on the ensuing possession, but a missed free throw with 14.5 remaining on the front end of a one-and-one set up the final possession for Capuchino (10-8, 3-2 PAL South). Brian Grealish pulled down the last of his game-high nine rebounds and found Marquez Mozeke, who handed off to Macaraeg for the game-winner.

“I was looking for a screen but never got one, so I just waited for the handoff,” said Macaraeg.

Everyone in the sold-out crowd would’ve expected the ball to end up in Mozeke’s hands, as the senior led all scorers with 21 points.

Somehow, through the entire Mills run and the dramatic game-winning play, Capuchino head coach Marty Ruiz was as calm as can be. The third-year coach hardly moved a muscle as the final possession unfolded, never flinching or calling a timeout. He simply let the play unfold, and a stroke of good luck turned the broken play into the game-winner and Capuchino’s second win over Mills in the last 10 years. The teams split two meetings last year after Mills had won 18 straight meetings dating back to 2005.

Capuchino led 21-19 at halftime before outscoring Mills 15-4 in the third. Mills (7-10, 2-3) hadn’t been able to find its shooting stroke in the third, and that drought continued until midway through the fourth. At the other end, Mozeke scored eight in the third quarter while the Mustangs outrebounded Mills 14-4. Cap finished with a 45-25 advantage on the boards, including 20-6 on the offensive glass.

The Mustangs had finished the first half on a 9-0 run. Mills got seven first-half points from Brandon Matsuno. The sharp-shooting senior finished with 11.