Delray Beach, Fla. –-(Ammoland.com)- Century Arms, the exclusive importer of Canik handguns and accessories, has introduced new accessory upgrades and line extensions to compliment the Canik TP9 9mm pistol series. The full accessory line made its debut at the 2018 NRA Show in Dallas, Texas.

“Canik popularity has experienced tremendous growth and we have seen a dramatic increase in requests for various accessories to compliment and customize the TP9 Pistol Series,” said Bill Barrett, Century Arms VP of Firearm Accessories. “The new accessory line includes spare parts and expands into highly requested items like suppressor height sight sets and threaded barrels.

The new accessories are built to the same rigorous standards as the Canik TP9 series pistols. The accessory line-up consists of parts that are great for “just in case” backup parts in your kit such as firing pins, replacement screws, and extended mag and slide releases. Magazine extensions will be available to increase magazine capacity without any permanent modifications to the handgun or magazine.

Replacement and threaded barrels have been added to the accessory line for consumers to have a spare or the option of adding a suppressor to their Canik pistol. Warren Tactical sights are now also available as a separate accessory item that are compatible with all TP9 series pistols produced after January 2016. In addition, factory recommended night sights are now available for your Canik TP-Series handgun featuring TRUGLO’s FOCUS•LOCK ring front sight and U-notch rear sight for fast and accurate sight acquisition, angled rear sight for one-hand operation, and premium Swiss Tritium, you can now outfit your Canik TP-Series handgun with sights providing unmatched visibility in low-light conditions.

The new accessory line will be available for sale online at www.CenturyArms.com and at local retailers throughout the country. Century Arms will be adding to the accessories and gear section of the newly redesigned Canik website throughout the year. Consumers are urged to check back frequently for their one-stop shop for all Canik related needs.

For more information on the Canik accessory line or complete line of pistols, please visit www.CenturyArms.com.

Follow Canik on Facebook and Instagram.

About Century Arms

Born over 50 years ago with its roots in the surplus business, Century Arms has an extensive history of providing unique and affordable products to the American Collector, Hunter, and Target Shooter. That tradition is carried on today, with a state of the art manufacturing facility located in the U.S.A, as the company continues to offer unique, innovative, and quality products to the U.S. Consumer and U.S. Government.