WILLOUGHBY, Ohio - Don't let the word "diner" in Chagrin River Diner fool you. The restaurant, which will have a ribbon-cutting at 9 a.m. Thursday, June 14, will offer quite a bit more.

Kirk Swanson and business partner James Turcotte are behind the restaurant, at 4099 Erie St., in downtown Willoughby. Arturo Batista Cervantes is chef. The 3,000-square-foot restaurant is going in the spot formerly occupied by Taco Local, a stone's throw from Willoughby Brewing Co.

Swanson, who grew up in Boston, has been in Willoughby for 15 years. A former executive chef at Burntwood Tavern, he was managing partner at Stir Crazy in Legacy Village in Lyndhurst. (Stir Crazy closed last year.) He worked with Cervantes years ago, and the two reunited a few months ago.

"When he walked through the door, I didn't recognize him," Swanson said. "It was 17 years ago."

But now the two are back in business, in Swanson's adopted hometown where he lives with his family.

"When I moved here and opened Stir Crazy in Legacy Village I didn't know there was a river here, and I fish a lot. I took a turn, and there was this house for sale. Best decision I ever made. It was an accident," said Swanson, who holds a degree in restaurant management from tiny Paul Smith's College in upstate New York, about 60 miles south of Canada.

"I call it a diner, but it's more of an upscale diner," he said. "I am featuring prime rib, filet, cedar-plank steelhead for the lunch menu. We're hoping to catch some of the lunch crowd down here."

The restaurant - which will be open 5 a.m. to 3 p.m. seven days a week - does not have a liquor license, but will offer special, private BYOB events at night.

The menu will feature breakfast tacos, a brioche French Toast platter, avocado toast and build-your-own-breakfast options. Most menu items are under $10, and kids' items are available.

Appetizers include mussels in white-wine sauce, zucchini cakes and antipasto with deep-fried olives. Soups, salads and sandwiches cover a range of options, with several burgers available.