CLOSE Lady of the House chef Kate Williams describes the butchery at her restaurant.

Chef Kate Williams and her Lady of the House restaurant in Corktown have been receiving a wave of national press lately. (Photo: Marvin Shaouni, Marvin Shaouni)

The national press appears to be enamored with a rising Detroit chef and her hot Corktown restaurant.

Chef Kate Williams of Lady of the House – runner-up to the Free Press' Restaurant of the Year – is one of Food & Wine magazine's Best New Chefs.

“For 30 years, Food & Wine has highlighted the country’s most brilliant, talented, and up-and-coming chefs for pushing their cuisines forward," said Food & Wine Editor-in-Chief Hunter Lewis in a news release. "This year’s class of Best New Chefs is one of the youngest groups to be recognized in the history of the program."

Also on Freep.com:

Lakeland prison program teaches inmates knife skills and life skills

First Bite: Rotisserie chicken is star at Peruvian restaurant in Ferndale

Williams, 33, is one of 11 chefs the magazine named for its 30th anniversary of the Best New Chefs program.

"You don’t need to know that Williams does most of her own butchery in-house to enjoy her perfect rosy slices of Parisian ham paired with sweet-spicy Dijon butter and chunky fermented honey, just as you don’t need to know that her mom hung the pineapple wallpaper and that some of the dainty china belonged to her grandmother to be blown away by the restaurant’s charm," Food & Wine Restaurant Editor Jordana Rothman wrote in the entry.

"Lady of the House may be a gift to the city of Detroit from its native daughter, but what Williams has built resonates far outside the city limits."

Reached by phone in New York just hours after the announcement was made, Williams was relieved to be unburdened of the secret she'd been keeping since February.

"It was so shocking," she recalled. "Jordana, the restaurant editor, called me the same day we got nominated for James Beard just to congratulate me. And she's like, 'Well, get ready to start crying again.'

"I was bandaging up my hand from having to close down the dish tank myself the night before and (slicing) it, which was like a perfect juxtaposition of what my life really is: Closing down the dish tank, bleeding from it because I'm bad at it and then getting this incredible call."

Lady of the House pastry Chef Monica Greer, left, and Chef Kate Williams prepare the sunchoke soup as one course during theDetroit Free Press/Metro Detroit Chevy Dealers Top 10 Ten Takeover on Tuesday, April 17, 2018 at Lady of the House in Detroit. (Photo: Elaine Cromie, Special to the Free Press)

The other winners are Katianna Hong of the Charter Oak in St. Helena, Calif., Diana Dávila of Chicago's Mi Tocaya Antojería, Julia Sullivan of Nashville's Henrietta Red, Liz Johnson of Freedman’s in Los Angeles, Jonathan Yao of Kato in Los Angeles, Michael Gallina of St. Louis' Vicia, Clare de Boer and Jess Shadbolt, of New York City's King, Kevin Tien of Washington, D.C.'s Himitsu and Brady Williams of Seattle's Canlis.

Williams is only the third Best New Chef from Michigan and the first since Takashi Yagihashi earned the title for his work at Tribute in 2000.

"It's very humbling and I'm incredibly honored," she said. "It just proves all this hard work not just at Lady but the rest of the food scene, the support from other chefs, restaurateurs, bar owners and farmers. It feels good to show off what we're doing."

The news comes just a month after GQ magazine named Lady of the House to its annual list of Best New Restaurants.

And though the New York Times in January dedicated 515 words to the restaurant in its Bites section, there's speculation that the Times' Restaurant Critic Pete Wells may have visited Lady of the House during a recent trip to Detroit. However, Williams declined to comment on any as-yet unpublished media stories.

Note: A previous version of this story said that Williams was believed to be the first-ever Michigan chef named as a Food & Wine Best New Chef. She is in fact the third chef from the state to earn the title.

Contact Mark Kurlyandchik: 313-222-5026 or mkurlyandc@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @mkurlyandchik and Instagram: curlyhandshake.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IALBJN