chevrolet

Downsized engines a test for GM pickups May 21 Author: Michael Wayland Ford's success with its V-6 EcoBoost engines has proved that V-8 engines aren't necessarily the default choice for pickup buyers. The question now is: How low can you go?



Threat of cobalt supply crunch could hinder EV growth May 21 A burgeoning risk of a supply crunch in cobalt -- a key battery metal that has more than tripled in price in two years -- poses one of the biggest threats to forecasts for rising electric vehicle adoption.



First Shift: New engine lets Silverado run on 2 cylinders May 18 New I-4 engine lets Silverado run on 2 cylinders; Report: FCA overhaul in Italy; Toyota EV to carry GAC badge in China; VW ads say 'Betta Getta Jetta'; M-B starts G class output.



AutoNews Now: GM gives pickup wars a 4-cylinder shakeup May 18 GM gives pickup wars 4-cylinder shakeup; GT builder hires ousted Ford exec; Twist in FCA case; Nissan holding out?; 'The Closer': Shed with treads; exhausted chickens; sweet reward.



GM will equip big '19 pickups with I-4 turbo in mpg battle vs. Ford, Ram May 18 Author: Michael Wayland GM is doubling the number of engines available on the retooled 2019 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra, including a new four-cylinder turbocharged engine that can run on two cylinders to increase fuel economy. The 2.7-liter, I-4 turbo is a milestone for the company and industry.



EV batteries present new challenges for firefighters May 16 Fires on electric vehicles are rare, but the volatile chemistry of their batteries and the need for special training on how to extinguish them raises new safety questions as automakers are poised to dramatically increase production.



Title violations for Michigan Chevy dealership lead to suspension, then stay May 14 Author: Alexa St. John A Michigan Chevy dealership was granted an emergency stay to continue selling vehicles despite a 15-day suspension it received based on customer complaints and numerous title-processing violations.



GM says 2017 Chevy Bolt needs software update May 2 Author: Michael Wayland GM is asking owners of 2017 Chevrolet Bolt EVs to take the vehicles to dealerships for a software update that will sooner detect a potential battery issue that could lead to a reduction or loss of acceleration.



Camaro blows out candles on Mustang birthday cake April 23 Ford wants to celebrate the Mustang's 54th birthday. That gave Chevy its own marketing idea.



GM offers in-dash fuel payments in 3-city pilot program April 18 Author: Michael Wayland The feature is being piloted in roughly 1 million Chevrolet vehicles at select Shell stations in the Detroit, Seattle and Houston metropolitan areas.



GM to cut shift at Ohio plant as Chevy Cruze sales slump April 13 Author: Michael Wayland GM is cutting one of two shifts at its Lordstown Assembly plant in Ohio amid stalling sales of the Chevrolet Cruze. Up to half of the factory's roughly 3,000 workers, including 2,700 hourly, could be affected when the shift is eliminated on June 18.

