China on Wednesday warned Washington that it would take “resolute and forceful” measures if the Trump administration follows through with its threat to impose tariffs on Chinese goods – sparking the possibility of a trade war in the days before a visit by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, according to a report.

“We do not want a trade war, but we are not afraid of one. We will fight back,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said, according to the Associated Press.

Beijing was responding to the White House announcement that it was planning on moving forward with imposing a 25 percent tariff on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods after the two countries agreed earlier this month to continue trade negotiations.

“We urge the United States to keep its promise, and meet China halfway in the spirit of the joint statement,” Hua said, adding that Beijing would take “resolute and forceful” measures to protect its interests if Washington continues to act in an “arbitrary and reckless manner.”

“When it comes to international relations, every time a country does an about face and contradicts itself, it’s another blow to, and a squandering of, its reputation,”​ she said.

The escalating trade tensions could add a wrinkle to the talks Ross will have with Chinese officials during his visit this weekend when he tries to convince them to buy more US goods.

​The Trump administration said it was taking the action in the face of China’s unfair trade practices in an effort to lower the US’ $375 billion trade deficit with the country.

Earlier this month, members of the Trump administration – including Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer – met with Chinese officials in Beijing in an effort to avert a trade war between the world’s two largest economies over tariff threats.

After the discussions, Washington and Beijing agreed to address the trade imbalance and China said it would import more energy and agricultural products from the US.

Mnuchin went on “Fox News Sunday” on May 20 to proclaim: “We are putting the trade war on hold.”