China jails Tibetan-language advocate for 5 years



by Staff Writers



Beijing (AFP) May 22, 2018



A Tibetan who has campaigned to preserve his region's ancestral language was jailed for five years in China on Tuesday for "inciting separatism" in a case Amnesty International denounced as "beyond absurd".

Tashi Wangchuk was featured in a New York Times documentary that followed him on a trip to Beijing, where he attempted to get Chinese state media and courts to address what he describes as the diminishing use of the Tibetan language.

A court in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in the northwestern province of Qinghai sentenced him on Tuesday morning, according to his lawyer.

The court could not be reached for comment.

Tashi had been detained in his home town of Yushu without access to his family since January 2016, not long after the New York Times published its story and documentary video about his activism.

"Tashi plans to appeal. I believe he committed no crime and we do not accept the verdict," lawyer Liang Xiaojun told AFP.

Tashi had pleaded not guilty at his trial in January.

But nearly every case that goes to trial in China -- especially on sensitive state security issues -- ends with a guilty verdict.

Liang told AFP the short documentary was the main evidence used by the prosecution.

In the video, Tashi complained of a "systematic slaughter of our culture".

In the New York Times stories Tashi notably said he wants to use Chinese law to build his case and praised President Xi Jinping.

Beijing says it "peacefully liberated" Tibet in 1951 and insists it has brought development to a previously backward region.

But many Tibetans accuse it of exploiting the region's natural resources and encouraging an influx of the majority Han ethnic group which critics say is diluting the native culture and Buddhist faith.

China's constitution protects free speech but critics say in reality there is little room for any opinions that challenge government policies. Rights groups have accused Xi's government of an escalating crackdown on expression.

Amnesty International said the sentence was "a gross injustice".

"He is being cruelly punished for peacefully drawing attention to the systematic erosion of Tibetan culture. To brand peaceful activism for Tibetan language as 'inciting separatism' is beyond absurd," said Joshua Rosenzweig, its East Asia research director.

"The documentary underscores that Tashi Wangchuk was merely trying to express his opinions about education policy through entirely legitimate means," Rosenzweig said in a statement.

The video ends with Tashi discussing the many Tibetans who have self-immolated in protest at China's policies over the years, while adding what he would do if he is "locked up or they force me to say things against my will".

"I will choose suicide," he said.

Hovering kids go political in Hong Kong festival parade

Hong Kong (AFP) May 22, 2018 - Children dressed as ancient gods, celebrities and political leaders were paraded high above crowds on the Hong Kong island of Cheung Chau Tuesday in a traditional celebration of Buddha's birthday.

The annual "Piu Sik" or "Floating Colours" march sees young residents held up on towering metal poles and greeted by cheers and applause as they are carried through the winding streets of the outlying island, which is still predominantly a fishing community.

The parade is part of Cheung Chau's famous five-day "bun festival" which culminates Tuesday night in a precipitous scramble up a tower made from imitation steamed buns, a favourite snack on the island.

Statues of deities were originally carried through the streets as part of the festival parade. But 70 years ago they were replaced by children, inspired by similar celebrations in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou.

In the past two decades the march has also evolved into a form of political satire.

Children from a parade group headed by local resident Wong Sing-chau dressed as the city's finance secretary and democratic lawmakers to reflect current controversies.

A four-year-old girl from Wong's group posed as the landlady from popular Hong Kong movie "Kung Fu Hustle", complete with pink pyjamas and hair rollers, in what he said was a nod to the city's sprawling housing costs.

"I want to speak for the people through satire," Wong told AFP. "Everyone suffers from high rent and unaffordable housing now."

A mini-version of city leader Carrie Lam in pink cheongsam and pearls also joined the parade, alongside children dressed as local sports stars including bespectacled Hong Kong snooker player Ng On-yee and champion cyclist Sarah Lee.

The ability to withstand the blazing sun for hours during the parade was one of the requirements for being selected, said Wong.

Temperatures reached 34 degrees Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit) on Tuesday, the hottest parade day in 71 years, with children trying to keep cool using fans and umbrellas.

For five-year-old Hayden Kwok, it was a taste of fame.

"Many people will say hello to me. I can see myself on TV," he told AFP before the event, during which he was dressed as pro-democracy lawmaker Ted Hui.

Hayden's father Kwok Yu-tin said he wanted his children to inherit tradition through participation.

"Participation gives them a better understanding of what the tradition is and they can feel the atmosphere for themselves," he said.



Related Links

China News from SinoDaily.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Chicago IL (SPX) May 23, 2018

