chrysler

At least 18 Jeep vehicles damaged in fire in Toledo May 21 Author: Anisa Jibrell A fire broke out in a parking lot near the Fiat Chrysler Automobiles' Toledo Assembly Complex this morning, damaging a number of Jeep vehicles.



AutoNews Now: Fire damages newly built Jeeps May 21 Fire damages newly built Jeeps; Trump signs bill overturning lending guidance; CR not recommending Tesla Model 3; Nissan's short-term pain; Solid future for Fisker?; Audi Q8 tease.



East Coast states to coordinate deployment of EV charging hubs May 16 Author: Eric Kulisch A dozen states on the Eastern Seaboard have signed on to a strategy for building out electric vehicle charging infrastructure to make fuel access easier and encourage people to buy electric cars.



Hellcat Charger gets a nose job May 14 The new Charger nose has what Dodge calls a more prominent Air Catcher in the grille to help the supercharged 707-hp motor breathe easier



Jeep Wrangler gets big boost in fuel economy May 14 Author: Richard Truett A new 2.0-liter turbo-four engine, more gears in the transmission, close attention to aerodynamics and greater use of lightweight materials helped give the redesigned 2018 Jeep Wrangler JL a nice bump in fuel economy.



FCA recalls more than 325,000 older-model Jeep Liberty SUVs May 11 Author: Anisa Jibrell Fiat Chrysler is recalling more than 325,000 older-model SUVs because of a flaw in their rear lower control arms.



MERGER MEMORIES May 7 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Former Chrysler President Tom Stallkamp was a firsthand witness to the 1998 grouping of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler — and was the first victim of the "merger of equals." Today, he says DaimlerChrysler was neither a merger nor equitable.



End of the line for JK May 7 The last Jeep Wrangler JK built was a white 2018 Rubicon Unlimited.



FCA's plans for Jeep in China went off-road May 7 In 2014, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles CEO Sergio Marchionne laid out a bold target: Sell 500,000 Jeeps in China in 2018 as part of the company's grand strategy to globalize its most valuable brand.



The road to divorce May 7 A timeline of events, from Kirk Kerkorian's hostile takeover bid for Chrysler in 1995, to the 1998 birth of DaimlerChrylser, to its eventual demise in 2007.



Lessons learned from DaimlerChrysler May 7 Author: Richard Johnson Conventional wisdom is that the combining of Daimler-Benz with Chrysler Corp. failed because of a clash of cultures, but that's an oversimplification.

