CLEVELAND, Ohio - What did Indians third baseman Jose Ramirez do in the eye of a steroid rumor storm?

He laughed. What did you expect?

Tuesday morning a friend sent him a text containing a blog from his native Dominican Republic saying that Ramirez had tested positive for steroids and would soon be suspended for 80 games.

"Yeah, it was this morning," said Ramirez after he homered and doubled in the Indians' 7-3 win over the White Sox at Progressive Field. "Somebody sent me a clipping and I really laughed to them about it."

When the Indians saw the blog, they were not laughing. The thought of losing their All-Star third baseman for 80 games - and the postseason - somehow was not amusing to Terry Francona and Chris Antonetti.

Not only did they want to meet with Ramirez to find out what was going on, but they wanted to make sure he was all right.

How did Ramirez walk into the meeting?

Well, he laughed again and told his manager and the president of baseball operations that he was fine and had never taken any banned substance.

"I don't think a whole lot bothers him," said Francona. "Put him on a baseball field. Let him play baseball and he's good to go."

Ramirez was still smiling after Tuesday's game when he talked to reporters with the assistance of team interpreter Will Clements.

"First, I'm really not worried about it that much," said Ramirez. "I should say that I feel bad that it came out, but I'm really not worried about it. I do feel bad for any fan that maybe got the wrong impression of me, but that's bad information.

"I've never used anything like that. So, at the end of the day, I feel fine and relaxed about myself. I'm just going to keep doing my thing and keep focusing on baseball and keep going forward."

There was nothing fake about this @MrLapara home run, his 16th of the season!#RallyTogether pic.twitter.com/5mLahpYmIo -- SportsTime Ohio (@SportsTimeOhio) May 30, 2018

Antonetti, after talking to Ramirez, reached out to MLB to see if there was any substance to the blog report. MLB said Ramirez had not tested positive and there was no pending suspension coming his way.

Ramirez went into the game the same way he spent the day - laughing and relaxed. He doubled home Michael Brantley in the first inning for a 1-0 lead. In the fifth inning, he hit his 16th homer of the season.

He particularly enjoyed the homer.

"I was definitely feeling good about it because I was a little bit anxious," said Ramirez. "But whoever is putting that kind of stuff out about me, I want them to be notified."

Ramirez, hitting .296 (60-for-203), leads the Indians in home runs and RBI. In the American League, he's tied for fourth in homers and stands alone in fourth place with 39 RBI.

Asked if he was angry about the report, Ramirez said, "To be honest with you, yeah, my first reaction was to laugh a little bit. The way I took it, when things are going well for you in baseball, there are always going to be random things that pop up or people trying to find something that will bring attention to you.

"So my first reaction was to laugh a little bit. I just let it go."

When asked if the rumor hurt his concentration during the game, Ramirez said, "I just don't focus on it. It doesn't bother me because I know I've never used anything like that. And so, when it comes to baseball, I just focus on the game."

How sharp was that focus? Well, Ramirez was asked about his approach going into Tuesday's game.

"My approach was to hit a home run," he said. "Thank God it happened that way."