In the first place, gross.

The Chicago Park District, in conjunction with a recreation company based in Miami, recently applied for a permit to anchor a “floating inflatable water sports park” in Lake Michigan, just off Montrose Beach on the city’s North Side.

The proposed colorful, aquatic playground of small slides and other obstacles might fit in near the heavily commercialized Navy Pier, say.

But it would be a jarring fit at Montrose Beach, with the park’s grand sweep of sand, its panoramic lake vistas and its adjacent dunes and bird sanctuary.

“Plan View Option 1” in the application on file with the Illinois Department of Natural Resources shows the network of blowup equipment connected to spell out “Chicago” to those flying overhead, which would bring a Wisconsin Dells level of tackiness to a relatively unspoiled part of the lakefront.

Even the other setup options shown in the proposal would be a visual blight during the summer months.

In the second place, whoa.

Only in the last several days, over the holiday weekend, did the “Aqua X Zone” proposal come to the attention of a variety of concerned citizens and groups, including Friends of the Parks, Protect Our Parks, the Chicago Ornithological Society, the Lincoln Park Advisory Council, Edgewater Environmental Sustainability Project and the Lakeside Area Neighbors Association. Representatives of each group I spoke to Tuesday expressed their dismay at the idea but cautioned that the news was too fresh for them to offer an official position.

Even the alderman was caught unaware, with James Cappelman, whose 46th Ward includes the site, posting to Facebook late Tuesday morning, “I learned about the proposed water park at Montrose Beach at the same time constituents did.”

A May 16 cover letter from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on the Park District’s application opened a 20-day public comment period on the project and noted, “A lack of response will be interpreted as meaning that you have no objections to the project as described.”

That comment period expires June 5, a week from Tuesday. The comment period on the Illinois Department of Natural Resources application, which was initially filed in March 2017 and reposted on the Saturday of Memorial Day weekend, expires June 25, leaving activists very little time to mobilize.

Their objections are more than aesthetic. They told me they worry about the effect of all the necessary concrete lake-bottom anchors on the movement of sand that sustains the nearby dunes and is home to nesting species of plants. They worry about the additional traffic at a beach that is already very crowded on warm days and what that will mean to the area’s ecology.

Similar concerns beat back several proposals to build a simulated surfing wave pool at the same beach in recent years, and late Tuesday it seemed as if they’d defeated this plan as well.

And look, I don’t know. Maybe the worries about the water park are overblown. And maybe most people will disagree with my view that this proposal is gross.

Last summer, Whiting, Ind., opened a commercial floating playground in Lake Michigan that uses equipment from the same company featured in the Chicago Park District proposal, and it proved more popular than officials expected.

Nearly 21,000 customers, more than two-thirds of them from Illinois, patronized the Whiting attraction, according to local newspaper reports. It is a public-private partnership that charges $20 per person per hour.

No matter what you think of the proposal, it was major — a project that would change an important part of Chicago’s treasured front yard. And as such it needed a full public hearing, not an abbreviated comment period announced in poorly publicized documents.

“It’s not unusual for the Park District to try to move forward on projects without informing us or many others,” said Friends of the Parks executive director Juanita Irizarry, who said she learned about the proposal only on Friday.

The Chicago Park District said Tuesday that the water park “is no longer being considered for the 2018 beach season” then added in a later email that "the proposal can be considered in the future at any Chicago area beach." But anger and concern raged all day on social media and finally, late in the afternoon, officials sent out another statement: "Effective immediately, and going forward, the Park District will no longer consider an inflatable water park at Montrose Beach."

Finally, thanks. But do keep us posted next time, Park District.

ericzorn@gmail.com

Twitter @EricZorn

RELATED

WhoaZone, 'Ninja Warrior' for water lovers, to open on Lake Michigan »

Lake Shore Drive proposals would shift beaches, straighten Oak Street curve »