Share This Story Tweet Share Share Pin Email

Did Coleman Young help Detroit or hurt it? Was he a messiah or a crook, a master builder or a city wrecker?

Ask those questions at your next party and watch the crowd polarize, right before your eyes.

Young, was born 100 years ago this week in Tuscaloosa, Ala. His birthday — May 24, 1918 — became an important date in the future of Detroit, where Young moved with his family in 1923, when he was 5 and Detroit was booming.

Fifty years later, as the city struggled with rising crime, declining population and widespread abandonment, Detroiters elected Young the city’s first black mayor. He served for 20 years — two long decades that were exhilarating, depressing or both, depending on your point of view.

Young is long gone: He left city hall almost 25 years ago and died in 1997, when he was 79.

But his legacy continues, as does the debate over his legacy. Most black Detroiters consider Young a legend and liberator; many whites believe he was a corrupt militant who disliked white people.

MORE: Tribute to celebrate Mayor Coleman Young's legacy, impact on Detroit

Did Young’s actions propel Detroit toward bankruptcy? Does he have anything to do with the current revitalization underway in about 10 square miles of the 139-square-mile city, a resurrection he predicted for 20 years?

In the two decades since his death, scholars and journalists have published research that sheds new light on Young’s tenure, and his mayoral papers have been processed and are now open to the public at the Detroit Public Library.

To mark the centenary of his birth, we’ve assembled and explored a list of myths that have grown up about Young. Some of them date to Young’s first election; others are of more recent vintage. They all speak to the complex history of a complicated politician.

Let the arguments begin!

Myth: He ruined Detroit

This widespread belief has a highly visible champion -- Oakland County Executive L. Brooks Patterson, who called Young “ a disaster” and “the captain of the Titanic” the day after Young died.

As recently as 2013, on Fox 2, Patterson made the odd claim that Young destroyed Detroit because the mayor had been the victim of racial bias growing up. “I think he took the city down because he was hell-bent on… getting even for what he considered or perceived to be a lifetime of discrimination and insults and so forth,” Patterson said.

Did Detroit decline in significant ways while Young was mayor? Yes, as Young himself acknowledged. The population plummeted by 400,000 during his two decades in office, and the city lost half of its businesses. But the population had also dropped by some 400,000 in the 20 years before Young became mayor. He inherited a city that had been trapped in a downward spiral since the early 1950s.

There were other challenges beyond Young’s control: Seven years before Young took office, the 1967 rebellion devastated Detroit, and during his first mayoral campaign, the Mideastern Oil Boycott began. It hammered Detroit’s auto industry, already under assault from Japanese and European imports, and raised unemployment. In Young's first year at city hall, Detroit police recorded 714 homicides, a yearly toll that has never been eclipsed.

In his 1996 book “Origins of the Urban Crisis,” historian Thomas Sugrue spent 375 pages dissecting what caused Detroit’s tailspin after World War II, but makes only two brief references to Young.

Young encountered numerous problems running the city, partly because services inevitably declined along with the city’s dwindling tax base. But Young himself acknowledged problems with such operations under his control as garbage-pickup, abandoned-house demolitions, surplus food distribution, EMS, the bus system, land acquisition for major projects and the city law department. He also ran one of the nation’s most secretive city halls, shutting out not only media, but also Detroit residents searching for public information.

Detroit Mayor Coleman Young poses for a photo atop the Riverfront Apartments overlooking downtown Detroit in this November 1989 photo.

(Photo: Tony Spina/Detroit Free Press)

Myth: He set the stage for today's downtown

That’s what Young’s fans say today — and they have a point.

Despite Detroit’s enormous problems during Young’s 20 years in city hall, Young held fast to a vision for downtown: It was Young who began redoing the riverfront, constructed housing in the central business district; brought Mike Ilitch and his empire to the Fox Theatre and office building; restored the Opera House and built Joe Louis Arena, among other actions.

Young also spent years battling for a new baseball stadium, which became Comerica Park under his successor, Dennis Archer. And Young waged a long struggle to establish casinos in Detroit. They also opened under Archer.

But in meeting some successes in his long-range plan for downtown, Young also ignited the long-running debate over whether city hall favored downtown at the expense of neighborhoods. Tom Barrow, the CPA who challenged Young in 1985 and 1989, centered both campaigns around his plans to repair residential districts, which he said Young ignored.

Stressing what he said was the growing gap between downtown and neighborhoods, Young’s son, state Sen. Coleman Young II, put Mayor Mike Duggan on the defensive during their runoff last November, but Young received only 28 percent of the vote.

Detroit Mayor Coleman Young eats a slice of pizza with Little Caesars Pizza owner Mike Illitch during a fundraiser for the hungry in Detroit in 1985.

(Photo: Ira Rosenberg, Detroit Free Press)

Myth: He screwed up Detroit’s finances

This is one of the most stubborn assertions of Young's critics. But the historical evidence suggests the opposite: If all mayors had shown Young’s fiscal discipline, Detroit likely could have avoided bankruptcy.

During the city’s Chapter 9 court case that began in 2013, Free Press reporters John Gallagher and Nathan Bomey demonstrated that Young handled Detroit’s money better than virtually every other mayor from 1950 to 2014.

They wrote: “Serving from 1974-1994, Young was the most austere Detroit mayor since World War II, reducing the workforce, department budgets and debt during a particularly nasty national recession in the early 1980s. Young was the only Detroit mayor since 1950 to preside over a city with more income than debt, although he relied heavily on tax increases to pay for services.”

Detroit Mayor Coleman Young shakes hands with General Motors Chairman Roger Smith, left, in mid 1980's after Grand Blvd was renamed General Motors Blvd.

(Photo: Robert Kozloff/Detroit Free Press)

Myth: He was rich

Young lived modestly before he became mayor in 1974, and probate court records revealed after Young’s 1997 death showed that he left an estate estimated at $500,000. No information has surfaced since then that would question that amount.

The estate was divided among Young’s two sisters, his son, and a longtime female companion. Young was a prodigious fund-raiser, but Michigan law barred him from taking campaign funds with him when he left office. It was, however, legal to donate the funds to a non-profit, and in 1993 Young gave $2.3 million to the Coleman Young Foundation, which provides college scholarships, and $1 million to Wayne State University.

From left, DIA director Sam Sachs, Governor James Blanchard, Mayor Coleman Young and Judge Damon Keith together at the mayor's birthday celebrations.

(Photo: Hugh Grannum/Detroit Free Press)

Myth: He hated white people

Some people associate Young with racism because he talked a lot about prejudice and its effect on metro Detroit. He found racism in many institutions, from the Detroit police to the Michigan Legislature.

He didn’t mince words, he sometimes adopted an angry tone, and he often swore. For many whites in the 1970s, Young was the first elected leader to confront them with the race issue, and many resented being lectured by a militant black man. Yet many of he issues Young was talking about in 1978, including police brutality, economic inequality and employment discrimination, continue to resonate nationally 40 years later.

A number of whites concluded over the years that Young, who was an advocate for many black causes, was a racist himself.



But all evidence shows Young, who had white ancestors, was a lifelong integrationist. After World War II, Young worked as an organizer for a Wayne County labor group that protested segregation in Detroit’s hotels, restaurants and stores. The group’s slogan: “Black and white, unite to fight.”

He worked with whites, had many white friends and hired white people for top jobs in his administration. His longtime female companion was a white woman. He constantly preached integration, even while supporting black causes.

Young once denounced racial separatism to a group of black students, saying, “The last man who tried that was Jeff Davis. He had an army and everything but still didn’t win.”

Some whites criticized Young because he enjoyed support from groups with a black-nationalist orientation, such as the Shrine of the Black Madonna. Young was not a member, but he welcomed the Shrine’s support and put Shrine members in his administration.

On the other hand, Young was not shy about playing the race card when it suited him, especially in politics. In 1977, he verbally kneecapped Ernest Browne, an African-American opponent, for attracting considerable white support. “We have a curious phenomenon in this campaign," Young taunted, "perhaps an important first in American politics — a black white hope.”

Democratic gubernatorial candidate James Blanchard (left) confers with U.S. Senator Donald Riegle as Mayor Coleman Young (center) ponders at St. James Missionary Baptist Church in Detroit. Young was hosting a Democratic candidates tour of four Detroit church in preparation for the November election.

(Photo: Patricia Beck/Detroit Free Press)

Myth: He told white people to leave Detroit

That canard originated in Young’s first -- and most famous -- inaugural address. The speech was remarkably short, just 528 words, and was all about unity -- the need for blacks and whites, Detroiters and suburbanites, young and old – to work together to build a new Detroit.

“We can no longer afford the luxury of hatred and racial division,” Young said in his speech. “What is good for the black people of this city is good for the white people of this city. What is good for the rich people in this city is good for the poor people in this city. What is good for those who live in the suburbs is good for those of us who live in the central city.”

It was an era of rising crime, and Young had made the conduct of the overwhelmingly white Detroit police in the black community a major part of his campaign. Young closed the speech with a warning to both police and criminals.

“We must build a new people-oriented police department. And then you and they can help us to drive the criminals from our streets. I issue open warnings now to all dope pushers, to all rip-off artists, to all muggers: It’s time to leave Detroit. Hit Eight Mile Road!"

Young's command drew extended applause., after which he continued: "And I don’t give a damn if they’re black or white, if they wear Superfly suits or blue uniforms with silver badges. Hit the road!” More extended applause followed.

Most people took Young’s “Hit Eight Mile” admonition as the “get-out-of-town” figure of speech that it was meant to be. But Young’s critics pounced on his words and interpreted them to say he wanted bad guys to invade the suburbs. In any case, while he told some people to leave Detroit that day, it wasn’t white Detroiters, unless they were breaking the law.

Detroit Mayor Coleman A. Young speaks to supports the night of his first re-election on Nov. 8, 1977.

(Photo: Tony Spina/Detroit Free Press)

Myth: He was a union tool

Young had been a union organizer, and as a state senator he supported Public Act 312, the compulsory arbitration law designed to resolve labor disputes with public safety unions without a strike. He supported labor actions while in office, including the newspaper unions’ strike against the Free Press and Detroit News in the mid-1990s. But as mayor, Young angered city unions for 20 years with his tough bargaining, layoffs, downsizing and overall fiscal discipline.

Ironically, Act 312 came to torment Young as mayor, as outside arbitrators made awards to police and fire unions in the 1980s that blew up his budgets.

Detroit Mayor Coleman A. Young on his first day in office as mayor of Detroit.

(Photo: Tony Spina)

Myth: He was a communist

Young was an activist on the left flank of the post-war labor movement in Detroit, and that inevitably brought him into contact with a variety of radical groups, including the Communist Party, which had a significant presence in the city. His rise coincided with the paranoia Sen. Joe McCarthy conjured during America's Red Scare.

Unlike many other white organizations, communists worked with African Americans in many cities on civil-rights activities before and after the war. The FBI accused Young of being a Communist Party member, and his association with leftists was the reason he was called in front of the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1952.

Young famously refused to answer the congressmen’s questions about whether he was a card-carrying Communist, or to inform on others. “You have me mixed up with a stool pigeon,” he told one questioner. Young never confirmed or denied he was actually a party member, but by the time he was mayor, he was cutting deals with such serious capitalists as Henry Ford II, Max Fisher, Al Taubman and David Rockefeller.

Mayor Young reads the program during a ceremony commemorating the redevelopment of the community along what was the Twelfth Street riot corridor on July 24, 1987.

(Photo: Pauline Lubens/Detroit Free Press)

Myth: He was crooked

The FBI investigated Young for decades. They confronted him in random places; asked about his politics; wiretapped his condo; wired a convicted con man who was his business associate and scrutinized the mayor’s finances. But while relatives and people around Young went to prison for corruption, Young never was indicted or charged with a crime.

Young taunted federal authorities over their failed efforts to catch him breaking the law, once saying Leonard Gilman, the U.S. Attorney in Detroit in the 1980s, “was salivating at the thought of getting my black ass.”

William Hart, Young’s longtime police chief, went to prison for embezzling $2.3 million from a secret police anti-drug fund. Trial testimony revealed money from the fund was used to armor Young’s limo, buy machine guns for his security squad and bankroll a satellite TV system for the mayor’s city-owned residence. Testimony also showed police crews were dispatched to protect the mayor’s niece, who was later charged in a drug-importing scheme. While charges against her were dropped, her father, Willie Volsan -- Young’s brother-in-law -- received a 19-year prison sentence.

In 1984, Darralyn Bowers, a mayoral friend, and Young’s Water Department chief, Charles Beckham, went to prison for racketeering and mail fraud surrounding Vista Disposal Inc., which had received a contract from Young for hauling city sludge. Federal prosecutors sought to make Young a Vista conspirator so they could play a series of secretly recorded tapes. U.S. District Judge Robert DeMascio refused their request concerning Young, but allowed the tapes to be played.

The mayor said the Vista conviction was related to ongoing attempts by suburbanites to place the Detroit-owned water system under regional jurisdiction, an ambition that finally came to fruition after the city declared bankruptcy in 2013. “Vista was really all about control,” Young said. “We do not need a white boss. We do not need surrender. We ask, finally, for the cooperation of the suburbs. We do not ask for their permission, nor will we ever.”

In the late 1980s, federal investigators were looking at Young in a case that involved allegations of money-laundering and bribery, which later proved false. The feds used an undercover informant named Kenneth Weiner, a former civilian Detroit police official whom feds were probing in an an unrelated gold-investment scam, to secretly tape Young, but the case against the mayor fell apart.

Coleman A. Young gives the victory sign after learning that he has been elected as mayor of Detroit on November 7, 1973.

(Photo: AP Photo/File, Associated Press)

Myth: He could have run again, and won a sixth term

Doubtful.

Young’s health was deteriorating in 1993, when he announced his retirement. He was 75 then and died four years later, so it’s unlikely he could have summoned the stamina to go for a sixth term.

If Young did run, former state Supreme Court Justice Dennis Archer would have presented a challenge; Archer launched his mayoral campaign eight months before Young announced his retirement, and former U. S. Rep. George Crockett Jr., an iconic civil rights figure and a longtime Young ally, made a surprise appearance at Archer's announcement to endorse him and suggest it was time for Young to retire.

Archer was better known and better financed than Tom Barrow, who took on Young in 1985, when Barrow got only 39 percent of the vote, and 1989, when Barrow scored 42 percent. Young was widely admired in the black community, but Detroiters by 1989 were growing weary of their city’s never-ending problems. Archer’s early entry into the race and Crockett’s endorsement were signs of Young’s potential weakness -- Archer, a member in good standing of the Detroit establishment, had served as chairman of Young’s 1977 re-election campaign.

Detroit mayor Coleman Young near the Boblo boat in 1988.

(Photo: Detroit Free Press)

Bill McGraw was a reporter, editor and columnist for the Free Press from 1977 to 2009. He covered city hall during Young’s fourth and fifth terms.



