The founder of a one of the Denver area’s oldest coworking spaces is accused of being a “serial predator” who subjected his female employees to sexual harassment and assault, according to a Denver district court lawsuit filed last week.

The allegations are brought against Waqar “Vic” Ahmed, founder of business incubator Innovation Pavilion, by former employee Suzy Gutierrez.

According to the lawsuit, Ahmed allegedly created such a sexually hostile work environment that Gutierrez resigned in 2017 after nearly five years with the company.

“I’m going to do everything in my power to make sure no one else is hurt by this man,” Gutierrez said in a text to The Denver Post on Wednesday morning.

Ahmed declined to comment.

It was unclear if Gutierrez had contacted law enforcement about the alleged assaults.

Gutierrez joined the Centennial-based organization as an intern in 2012 and was hired as a full-time employee in 2015. As her role began to expand and out-of-state business trips became necessary, the lawsuit said Ahmed insisted on accompanying Gutierrez on business trips in which he would allegedly touch his employee inappropriately on the plane, ask for kisses and reach down Gutierrez’s dress to touch her in a secluded hotel bar.

“Ms. Gutierrez did not reciprocate Defendant Ahmed’s advances in any way during this assault,” the lawsuit read. “She did not even make eye contact or give any other signal that she consented or thought his actions were welcome in any way.”

Despite the alleged sexual assaults, the lawsuit, first reported by BusinessDen, said Gutierrez understood her professional future was in the hands of Ahmed. Gutierrez verbally rebuffed Ahmed’s further inappropriate actions, telling him she was celebrating her 22nd wedding anniversary and uninterested in relations with anyone else.

“It takes a lot of courage to come forward and be the first person to speak out against the predatory behavior of a powerful man,” said Mari Newman, part of Gutierrez’s legal counsel. “She’s the first woman coming forward, but I’m virtually certain she won’t be the last.”

Although Ahmed told Gutierrez he understood her refusal, the lawsuit said, another business trip to Atlanta in June 2017 resulted in additional alleged encounters.

During a trip to the movie theater where Gutierrez drank some wine, she began to feel woozy, sweaty and faded in and out of consciousness, the lawsuit said. Ahmed allegedly sexually assaulted Gutierrez at the movies and then took the her back to their hotel because she felt ill.

“The next morning, Ms.Gutierrez woke up alone in her hotel room, completely naked (though she normally sleeps in a nightgown),” the lawsuit read.

Gutierrez felt “raw” and “sore” and questioned Ahmed about what had happened the night before.

“When asked if he had seen her naked, Defendant Ahmed replied that he had, and claimed that the two had ‘made out’ but had not ‘done it.’…The only thing she knew for sure was that her boss had taken physical advantage of her while she was unconscious,” according to the lawsuit.

Gutierrez resigned after that trip.

Ahmed opened Innovation Pavilion in 2011 as a new type of business incubator to house entrepreneurs and startups. The 80,000-square-foot suburban coworking space was later joined by similar startups like Galvanize and WeWork, which opened in downtown Denver.

Innovation Pavilion created a variety of entrepreneurial communities including TechrIoT, which focused on the trendy internet of things technology. Launched in June 2015, TechrIoT, led by Gutierrez, held regular meetings, teamed up with nearby Arrow Electronics and hosted a 6-month-long incubator that graduated companies including LockState, a Denver company that makes Wi-Fi door locks.

On Wednesday morning, Innovation Pavilion offices were pretty quiet. Some people who rent office space there said they had not heard about the charges against Ahmed and were in disbelief.

But the lawsuit went on to call Ahmed a “serial predator who subjected other female employees to the same treatment as Ms. Gutierrez, clearly establishing a pattern and practice of sexually harassing and assaulting female employees, and creating a sexually hostile work environment.”

Other examples of alleged harassment and assault listed in the lawsuit include Ahmed forcing himself on a 22-year-old employee who was a recent college graduate. The lawsuit alleged Ahmed showed the young woman explicit photos of her female boss and then grabbed, kissed and groped the young woman in a hallway at the Inverness Hotel.

When the young woman confided in a female colleague, the colleague said Ahmed had done the same thing to her on several occasions, according to the lawsuit.

Gutierrez is claiming assault, battery, false imprisonment and outrageous conduct against Ahmed and negligent supervision and retention against Innovation Pavilion. Gutierrez is seeking financial compensation and appropriate equitable relief.

“One of the important messages of a case like this is so men see they cannot simply abuse their power and hope it stays in the shadows,” said Darold Killmer, part of Gutierrez’s legal counsel. “The more women who speak out about this, the more men will be forced, if nothing else, to behave. Everybody benefits.”

This story is developing and may be updated.