Parents, police and gamers alike are denouncing an upcoming video game that allows players to simulate a school shooting, saying the publisher wants to make money off the “glamorization of tragedies” impacting students and teachers across the country.

Ryan Petty, whose 14-year-old daughter, Alaina, was killed during the Feb. 14 massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, told the Miami Herald that the planned June 6 release of “Active Shooter” should be canceled.

The game, developed by Revived Games, will allow players to act as a SWAT team member or an active shooter on a digital distribution platform called Steam, operated by Washington-based Valve. Revived doesn’t provide any contact information on its website, but it lists other controversial titles including Tyde Pod Challenge and White Power: Pure Voltage.

“It’s disgusting that Valve Corp. is trying to profit from the glamorization of tragedies affecting our schools across the country,” Petty told the newspaper. “Keeping our kids safe is a real issue affecting our communities and is in no way a ‘game.’”

Andrew Pollack, whose 18-year-old daughter, Meadow, was also killed in the Parkland shooting, said the “sick people” behind the game are contributing to the desensitization to violence that ultimately claimed the life of his daughter.

“The last thing we need is a simulated training on school shooting,” Pollack told the newspaper. “Video game designers should think of the influence they hold. This really crosses the line.”

A description of the game includes a disclaimer for players not to “take any of this seriously” and to seek professional help if they start to feel like hurting other people.

“This is only meant to be the simulation and nothing else,” the website reads.

The game’s Russian publisher, Acid, claimed in a blog post Thursday that the simulated shooting game doesn’t promote violence and was originally conceived to allow players only to act as responding SWAT team members rather than the role of an active shooter.

“Then I thought about adding more gameplay to it by adding additional roles: of the shooter and the civilian,” Acid posted Thursday. “While I can see people’s anger and why this might be a bad idea for the game, I still feel like this topic should be left alone.”

The company said “Active Shooter” isn’t even the most violent game available on Steam’s platform, citing games like Hatred, Postal and Carmaggedon, which tasks players with killing others indiscriminately.

“I have wrote to Valve regarding this game and waiting for the reply,” the blog post continued. “After receiving such high amount of critics and hate, I will more likely remove the shooters role in this game by the release, unless if it can be kept as it is right now.”

A message seeking comment from Valve representatives was not immediately returned Tuesday.

More than 54,000 people have signed a petition as of Tuesday demanding that the game’s release be shut down.

“The company is taking the stand that this game is legal because of free speech and everything else that tech billionaires hide behind when they are doing something the public knows is absolutely, morally corrupt but legally fine — but we cannot stand for this,” the website reads. “How can anyone sleep at night knowing that they are profiting from turning deadly school shootings into entertainment?”

Some gamers, meanwhile, said they understood why playing the role of a deranged gunman is creating backlash in many communities, especially those rocked by recent school shootings.

“It’s probably not a good time to have a game where you’re running around shooting civilians in a school setting,” Evan Kice of Carrollton, Texas, told CBS Dallas-Fort Worth. “People are dying. Children are dying because of this.”

Law enforcement officials also decried the game.

“To be using such a serious situation as an active shooter or a school shooting-type situation, for entertainment?” Cedar Hill, Texas, police Lt. Colin Chenault told the station. “For me, it just goes against everything that our society represents, everything that our community represents. There’s just no place for it.”

The everyday threat is simply too real to be made into a game, Chenault said.

“These events really do occur,” he continued. “ … To try and capitalize and make money off of something so outrageous, just leaves me dumbfounded, for lack of a better term, or at least a term that can be expressed on television.”