Buy Photo Sarah and Craig Middlebrook, of Jackson, use a charging station for their Chevrolet Volt at Tanger Outlet in Howell on a Sunday afternoon, April 9, 2017. (Photo: Susan Tompor, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Consumers Energy wants to spend $7.5 million to bring hundreds of additional public electric vehicle charging stations — as well as 24 so-called fast chargers — to Michigan.

The three-year project, the utility's second go at such a plan, is part of a $58 million (1.4%) rate increase request the utility has before the Michigan Public Service Commission, most of which would pay for traditional electric grid infrastructure and forestry needs. As part of the proposed charging program, electric vehicle owners could qualify for rebates of up to $500 for installing charging equipment at home.

The fast chargers, which the U.S. Energy Department says can provide 50-70 miles of range for every 20 minutes of charging, would be along major roads, such as interstates, although no locations have been selected.

More public charging options could help alleviate range anxiety, the worry that an electric vehicle, or EV, driver might not have enough juice to get to his or her destination. EV supporters believe it's a major barrier to widespread public acceptance of electric vehicles, currently a small fraction of the U.S. vehicle market but projected to grow substantially.

The utility said there are only 467 public chargers and 16 fast chargers, not counting specialized chargers for Teslas, in Michigan. It said the state should have almost 1,100 public chargers and 60 fast chargers for the approximately 15,000 electric vehicles on the roads.

The Consumers Energy proposal, which has a prehearing scheduled for June 1, marks a second attempt by the Jackson-based utility to bolster Michigan's limited public charging infrastructure in recent years. Consumers Energy proposed a more extensive $15 million plan in 2016 but withdrew it after pushback from entities including the Michigan Attorney General's Office.

Read more:

Debate over charging stations slows electric car growth in Michigan

Electric vehicle tax credit survives in latest tax bill, but phase out remains

Tesla Model 3: Highly innovative, but built with 'dinosaur technology'

Brian Wheeler, a spokesman for the utility, said the current proposal will have wide-ranging benefits if approved.

"We think that developing a network that supports electric vehicles is good for the entire state whether you drive an electric vehicle or not," Wheeler said. "There's interest from customers, there's interest from automakers to move in this direction. To really make this a reality, it's important to make sure that there's a network of charging stations across the state."

The proposal differs from the previous offering by shifting from a utility-owned network toward one that provides rebates for private entities to install chargers. It would offer rebates of up to $5,000 for as many as 200 Level 2 public chargers and $70,000 for 24 DC Fast-Charging stations.

The previous proposal called for 60 fast chargers and another 750 public Level 2 chargers. Level 2 chargers can provide 10-20 miles of range per hour of charging, according to the Energy Department.

Consumers Energy would also create special off-peak charging rates for EV owners who charge their vehicles overnight. The rates could save a user up to 25% in the winter and up to 45% during the summer, Wheeler said.

Contact Eric D. Lawrence: elawrence@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter: @_ericdlawrence.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2Gs9FZz