By StoryStudio

You’re at work or at home taking care of the kids all day. When you find some free time, you want to spend it with family, running errands, catching up on sleep or binging Netflix. You don’t have the time or energy to take care of anything outside of your normal daily routine.

That includes caring for your car. You rely on your vehicle to run seamlessly every day and want to keep it looking great, but how many times has it needed maintenance or a wash at the most inconvenient time? When you’re busy, taking your car to the shop or the car wash is just another headache.

Enter Handled, an on-demand car care service that’s changing the way consumers in the Houston area take care of their vehicles. Whatever services your car needs, whenever your car needs them, Handled comes to you on-demand to take care of it.

We’ve put together all you need to know about how Handled works and the benefits of using its on-demand services so that you’ll never have to be stressed or troubled when it comes to your car again.

Pick the service, pick the time.

Skip the greasy shops and enjoy convenient, affordable and high-quality car washes, detailing, and maintenance right from the comfort of your home, office, or wherever you choose.

With Handled, you can easily schedule a variety of services for your car 24/7. Services include car washes and high-level detailing, oil changes, tire rotations, air filter replacements, wiper replacements, fluid flushes, fluid top-offs and more.

Handled offers several different kinds of wash & detail packages, as well as oil change & maintenance packages. Just choose what you need, when you need it (technicians operate from 10am – 8pm, 7 days a week), and Handled is on it.

Handled also has partnerships with Skyhouse Main, 57|55 Luxury Apartments, Alexan Downtown and Catalyst Luxury Tower Apartments, where they provide services weekly.

Top technicians at your service.

Unlike other companies, Handled does not contract work on your vehicle to unreliable third parties or independent technicians. All the mechanics at Handled are ASE® Certified, and Handled’s full-time technicians are the best in the business, with a minimum of three years’ experience each.

Every employee goes through extensive background checks, personality interviews and thorough training on state-of-the-art processes before being put on the road. Whenever your car needs service, you can be sure it’s being handled by an experienced and friendly Handled professional.

Only the best for your car.

Handled only uses the best materials for your vehicle. The company exclusively uses eco-friendly wash and detail products, premium Mobil 1™ and Mobil Super™ motor oils and top OEM-grade filters and fluids. In addition, Handled’s detail technicians use the best materials in the industry, including Chemical Guys, Adam’s Polishes and more.

All services performed by Handled mechanics are fully insured and backed by a 12-month/12,000-mile warranty. You’ll never have to worry about the quality of your service, technicians or materials again.

Scheduling is a breeze.

Scheduling a service for your car is easy. Simply select the services you need, when and where you want them, confirm, and you’re done. For the sake of transparency, all pricing is listed on the website, so you never have to worry about being taken advantage of.

The convenience of using Handled is free. Even though you’re getting top-quality car services that come to you, pricing is competitive with most affordable service locations and dealerships in the industry.

What other Handled customers are saying:

Busy car owners around the Houston area have been using Handled for easy, stress-free, convenient car care. Here is what some of them have to say about their experience:

















Image 1 of / 5 Caption Close Image 2 of 5 Image 3 of 5 Image 4 of 5 Image 5 of 5 Consider it Handled: Convenient, On-Demand Car Care in Houston 1 / 5 Back to Gallery

Get your car care Handled today:

For more information about Handled and to schedule car services that cater to your busy life and schedule, go to www.handled.net or call (888) 671-6886.