Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., left, talks with the committee's ranking member Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J. on Capitol Hill in Washington. (Photo: Susan Walsh, Associated Press)

WASHINGTON – Some policy-makers and powerful business groups on Thursday criticized President Donald Trump's threatened tariffs on imported autos and auto parts into the United States on national security grounds, suggesting Trump is abusing his authority.

U.S. Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tennessee, who serves as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and represents a state that is home to plants run by General Motors, Nissan and Volkswagen AG, said Trump is following "a dangerous course" by using a statute that protects national security to justify potential tariffs.

"There is no reason to use this provision to consider imposing tariffs on the automobile industry, and this appears to be either an attempt to affect domestic politics ahead of the election or for some other transactional purpose regarding ongoing trade discussions," said Corker. He added that he thought the proposal "should be abandoned immediately.”

Meanwhile, manufacturers organizations, automotive trade groups, auto suppliers represented by the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, representing businesses across the U.S., voiced similar concerns and slammed the proposal.

Chamber President and CEO Thomas Donohue said it could "deal a staggering blow to the very industry it purports to protect and would threaten to ignite a global trade war."

"This isn’t about national security. The administration has already signaled its true objective is to leverage this tariff threat in trade negotiations with Mexico, Canada, Japan, the European Union and South Korea," Donohue said. "The president’s (authority) should not be abused in this way, and doing so only encourages other nations to do likewise."

National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay Timmons added, "Manufacturers in the United States want to give every advantage to American workers. But incorrectly using the (national security provision) will create unintended consequences for U.S. manufacturing workers that will limit the chance for Americans to win, just as we do when government gets out of the way and allows us to lead."

“We are confident that vehicle imports do not pose a national security risk to the U.S.," said a statement from the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a trade group in Washington, D.C., that represents General Motors, Ford, Fiat Chrysler, Toyota, Volkswagen and other automakers. "Last year, 13 domestic and international automakers manufactured nearly 12 million vehicles in the U.S. The auto sector remains the leading exporter of manufactured goods in our country."

At the American Automotive Policy Center, which represents GM, Ford and Fiat Chrysler, president and former Missouri Gov. Matt Blunt said, “We will follow this process closely, share our views with the administration and continue to work with them to open foreign markets for U.S.-built products and level the international trade playing field.”

On Wednesday evening, Trump — amid criticism that his administration failed to extract concessions from China on trade and has so far failed to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, which he has repeatedly attacked as being bad for the U.S. — asked Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to initiate an investigation into imported cars, trucks and auto parts. Trump did so saying, "Core industries such as automobiles and automotive parts are critical to our strength as a Nation."

Under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, the Commerce Department can investigate whether imports threaten the national security and make recommendations which the president can then act on. On Wednesday, Ross said he was initiating just such an investigation into autos and auto parts though it will take months to complete.

Trump and the Department of Commerce earlier this year announced tariffs on imported steel and aluminum based on a Section 232 investigation finding that reductions in U.S. capacity and job losses threatened to impair national security, raising concerns among some at the time that he was misusing his authority.

Read more:

Generally, reaction to news of Trump's threat went without comment from many on Capitol Hill, though some Michigan lawmakers, including U.S. Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, both D-Mich., and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, seemed tentatively supportive if it somehow leads to more U.S. auto jobs and more overseas markets being opened to U.S. automakers.

"My bottom line is that we are making more cars in Michigan and are exporting our products, not our jobs. I will be reviewing the details of what has been proposed and expect that this investigation will be a long process," said Stabenow.

Peters, a member of the Senate Armed Service Committee, added: “Maintaining a strong manufacturing base is essential to protecting our economy and our national security. ... I am extremely concerned that any decline in our domestic manufacturing industry weakens America as we face aggression from global industrial powers like China and Russia."

Not all Democrats were supportive, however. U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, the party's ranking member on the Senate Finance Committee, said Trump "has yet to explain how this latest action fits into a coherent strategy to increase American auto jobs and wages for American workers, or whether it is just designed to create more chaos and confusion. Given the president’s recent moves to pull back on enforcement against China, I increasingly doubt such a strategy exists.”

Another Democrat with auto plants in his state, Sen. Doug Jones of Alabama, said any comment "would be premature, given the moving target these tariff announcements from the administration have been to date." He said he was monitoring the situation but has "no idea yet how the state will be affected.”

But at the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association, which represents auto parts makers and suppliers, officials called for Trump to reconsider, saying tariffs on parts they use to build other components "would adversely impact the success and growth of American manufacturing businesses. In addition, consumers need competitively priced aftermarket parts to repair and maintain their vehicles."

Officials around the globe also criticized the proposal, with NHK-World Japan quoting that nation's trade minister, Hiroshige Seko as saying, "If the U.S. imposes extreme trade restrictions (on autos and parts), the world market would be thrown into confusion."

Contact Todd Spangler: 703-854-8947 or tspangler@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter at @tsspangler.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LqN4QR