Nick Ward had until 5 p.m. Thursday to decide whether to remain in the NBA draft or return to Michigan State for his junior year. (Photo: Gregory Shamus / Getty Images)

Nick Ward waited until nearly the 11th hour to decide to return to Michigan State for his junior year.

You can read that a number of ways. One, that he was holding out hope he’d hear from some NBA team, any NBA team, that there would be a place for him in their organization, even if largely in the G-League early on. Two, that he was trying to get everything he could out of the NBA draft process before making a decision. If you’re going to dive in, you might as well be all in, get the most out of it. In waiting until less than 24 hours before the the 5 p.m. Wednesday deadline, he did just that.

RELATED: Nick Ward to return to Michigan State for junior season

If Ward’s goal is an NBA career, he made the right decision. I see him as a more intriguing NBA prospect than some others do. But I don’t have a late-second-round draft choice or a two-way NBA/G-League contract to offer him. He wasn’t projected to be among the 60 players chosen this year in what’s considered a deep draft. Next year’s draft is expected to be less talent throughout.

If there’s not a place for Ward in next year’s draft, there certainly isn’t one in this year’s. In other words, the risk in leaving now was greater.

RELATED: Couch: The NBA should draft Nick Ward, but reality might send him back to MSU

What matters going forward is that Ward is all in at MSU, even more so than before, that he doesn’t spend the year wishing he’d left. For MSU’s sake — and more significantly Ward’s sake — he’s got to be dialed in for the next 10 months.

Ward wanted to leave for the NBA. He found out the NBA doesn’t quite see him as he sees himself. For Ward, there is value in being humbled, in being told by NBA folks that his warts make at least 60 other players more desirable to them. This draft process, the workouts and interviews and feedback, might have reached Ward in ways Tom Izzo hasn’t.

There are things Ward can control and things he can’t. He’s 6-foot-8. He’s probably always going to be 6-8. That’s shorter than most NBA bigs. But he can get thinner, remake his body, develop a serviceable jump shot and build its range over time. Mostly, he’s got to dominate in the low block against NBA length. That’s the skill that separates him — he’s a bad dude in the post, with a gift for scoring with quickness and from odd angles that few players on this planet have.

Yes, it would help Ward (and MSU) if he better recognizes double-teams. That means he’s seeing the floor, which will help him at the next level. But he’s not going to be double-teamed in the NBA. If he gets there, it’ll be because one-on-one, on the block, he can get you buckets. His struggles against Michigan’s Moritz Wagner and Syracuse’s NBA length at the end of last season put that in question. Next season, those half-dozen or so times he faces NBA length and quickness, he’s got to show he can eat it alive.

If he does that, not only will he have a chance to be drafted, perhaps fairly safely, and have an NBA career, but MSU will benefit. The Spartans were not a great mix last season. One problem: They had too many bigs and didn’t always manage them well. Ward, one could argue, should have played more than 18.9 minutes per game. Izzo would argue otherwise. Sometimes he was punished too harshly for mistakes that others played through. Sometimes not.

RELATED: Couch: Breaking down Michigan State's 2018-19 roster (with Nick Ward), player by player

He’ll have to work to play big minutes next season. Sophomore Xavier Tillman, who might also play some alongside Ward, emerged late last season, playing at a level that made him difficult to take off the court. Having Tillman to practice against and to compete against for minutes is good for Ward. And, again, for MSU. That duo gives the Spartans a tandem of big men as skilled as you’ll see in college hoops, without the glut of backups that made a regular rotation difficult to navigate.

How much Ward changes MSU’s ceiling next year depends a lot on Ward. He gives MSU easy offense, a go-to player in the post who can get them points, prevent droughts and command attention. He has the talent to put MSU in another sphere, if MSU’s backcourt also progresses.

Ward’s not always been the most mature kid. But this was a mature decision.

Contact Graham Couch gcouch@lsj.com. Follow him on Twitter @Graham_Couch.