Cuyahoga County Executive Armond Budish needs to say yes to bail reform and make sure the county writes the checks needed when the local judges, lawyers and other experts who made up the Cuyahoga County Bail Task Force come asking for this critical support. Investing in improved pretrial services among other reforms can yield significant savings by eliminating unnecessary jail time that has to be underwritten by taxpayers.

As our editorial board said in March when the task force first outlined a series of bail reforms designed to ensure a fairer justice system for all in Cuyahoga County, Budish needs to step forward and, without ambiguity, pledge county funding to underwrite pivotal aspects of the proposal. These include expanded and centralized pretrial services and data collection; far more rapid, in-person bail hearings; an expanded risk assessment tool that includes provisions for domestic violence cases; and a centralized bail process.

We are still waiting for Budish clearly and categorically to promise county underwriting of these bail reforms.

The work of the county's bail reform task force, assembled and led by Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court Administrative and Presiding Judge John J. Russo, followed more than a year and a half of reporting by cleveland.com as part of its Justice for All series on abuses that, among other consequences, allowed too many suspects to languish in jail for want of bail. The task force report also highlighted the numerous inconsistencies in bail practices in the county's 13 municipal courts that argue clearly for centralized approaches.

Russo and his colleagues should be commended. There must not be one form of justice for the well-off and another that victimizes those lacking means with unwarranted jail time that can cause them to lose their jobs as they wait unnecessarily for bail to be set, or lowered.

The task force's thorough assessment of this problem and its proposed solutions, seconded earlier this month by the judicial conference of the 8th Ohio District Court of Appeals, deserve adoption in full. This will not happen without county money dedicated to the process. Armond Budish must pledge that support now.

About our editorials: Editorials express the view of the editorial board of cleveland.com and The Plain Dealer -- the senior leadership and editorial-writing staff. As is traditional, editorials are unsigned and intended to be seen as the voice of the news organization.

Have something to say about this topic?

* Use the comments to share your thoughts. Then, stay informed when readers reply to your comments by using the "Follow" option at the top of the comments, and look for updates via the small blue bell in the lower right as you look at more stories on cleveland.com.

* Send a letter to the editor, which will be considered for print publication.

* Email general questions about our editorial board or comments on this editorial to Elizabeth Sullivan, director of opinion, at esullivan@cleveland.com.