daimler

Daimler CEO Zetsche questioned over emissions fixes May 29 Germany's Transport Ministry questioned Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche over how many Mercedes vans and cars need to be fixed to meet emissions rules after the automaker was ordered to recall Vito vans because they breached emissions regulations.



Daimler reboots Smart management for electric-only future May 29 Daimler is changing top management at the maker of the tiny Smart car, part of the latest plan to overhaul a brand that's always been an awkward fit for the world's largest maker of luxury vehicles.



Daimler's Annette Winkler to step down as head of Smart May 29 Author: Christiaan Hetzner The CEO of Daimler's Smart business, Annette Winkler, is stepping down after eight years as head of the automaker's microcar brand.



Mercedes retailers get a preview of A-class sedan May 28 Author: Urvaksh Karkaria Mercedes-Benz will put its premium A-class subcompact sedan into U.S. showrooms this year. But now that the automaker has begun giving U.S. retailers a look at the car, product plans and details are coming into sharper focus.



M-B thinks small for U.S. models May 28 Author: Urvaksh Karkaria Mercedes gives dealers their first glimpse of the "baby G class," coming as a 2020 model.



Toyota still No. 1, Mercedes passes BMW for No. 2 in ranking of most valuable car brands May 28 Author: Douglas A. Bolduc Toyota held on to its title as the world's most valuable car brand for the sixth year in a row while Mercedes passed BMW to finish second for the first time in an annual brand ranking.



M-B skips the cost of EV charging network May 28 Author: Urvaksh Karkaria Being a latecomer to the electric vehicle market has its advantage.



M-B'S 3RD-PARTY PARTNER May 27 Author: Urvaksh Karkaria German car-rental company Sixt is the first third-party seller integrated into MBonDemand, a Web-based platform for sales of used Mercedes-Benz vehicles.



Daimler faces recall of over 600,000 Mercedes diesel models, report says May 25 Daimler faces a recall of more than 600,000 diesel-engine vehicles including Mercedes C-class and G-class models because of suspected emissions manipulation, a German magazine reported.



Donald Trump does a favor for BMW and Mercedes May 23 The biggest beneficiaries of President Donald Trump's drive to get China to "play fair" on trade are automakers such as BMW and Mercedes, which export expensive sedans and SUVs from Germany and the U.S. to wealthy customers in the world's biggest market.



AMG boss pushes motorsports expansion May 21 Author: Amy Wilson Under Tobias Moers, AMG has expanded its racing program. For the head of Mercedes;Benz' performance division, the investment is a proof point that AMG is serious about developing sports cars.

