BY ETHAN KASSEL

Over the past three years, change has been a constant for De La Salle. Three coaches have led the program in three years and numerous players have passed through the program. At Monday’s Martin Luther King, Jr. Classic at Saint Mary’s McKeon Pavilion, a few of the constants that have held true throughout this time of change were on display. First came De La Salle’s warmup music, the same mix of 1980s hits and workout music that the Spartans have used before games for ages. Then came the post play of 6-6 senior Emeka Udenyi and the typical style that De La Salle has been known for over the years, with tight defense, crisp passing, tremendous discipline and back cuts to create baskets. All of these elements added up to a 43-41 win over Studio City power Harvard-Westlake, the biggest win yet for first-year head coach Justin Argenal.

Even though the Spartans entered Monday’s game with impressive wins over the likes of Logan and Monte Vista, Harvard-Westlake was an entirely different challenge. The Wolverines came to Monday’s game led by Cassius Stanley, one of the top sophomores in the entire country, as well as two stellar freshmen getting significant minutes off the bench in 6-5 Terren Frank and 6-9 Mason Hooks. A third freshman, arguably Harvard-Westlake’s best in Johnny Juzang, was unable to play due to a ligament damage on one of his pinkies.

Even without Juzang, Harvard-Westlake was a force, as evidenced by recent wins over Sacramento-area powers Capital Christian and Woodcreek.

Despite the tremendous size and talent on the other side, De La Salle hung tough using the same system the Spartans have championed for years. Though he wasn’t in the starting lineup, 6-3 senior Eric Headley was huge for De La Salle, scoring seven first-quarter points after Harvard-Westlake opened an early 8-0 lead. Two of those baskets were assisted by Udenyi. While Udenyi has the body of a typical post player, he fills a unique role for the Spartans. The bulky senior usually sets up around the free throw line, using his size to direct traffic and distribute the ball before crashing the boards for rebounds.

Udenyi continued to be a force for De La Salle all night long. His presence helped De La Salle cut the Wolverine lead to 12-9 after a quarter. After Headley scored again to cut the deficit to one early in the second quarter, the reins were passed to 6-3 junior Justin Pratt, who scored six points in the second quarter while Udenyi pulled down another three rebounds. Harvard-Westlake held a slim 20-17 halftime lead behind ten points from Stanley and six from Carter Begel.

After De La Salle spent the first two quarters hanging with the heavily-favored Wolverines, their system got the results on the scoreboard in the third. Pratt. Headley and Udenyi led an offense that mustered just 17 points in the first 16 minutes to another 16 in the third quarter as the Spartans outscored the Wolverines 16-9, and it would’ve been more lopsided if not for a critical three at the buzzer by Harvard-Westlake’s Ali Iken.

Though De La Salle led by six through much of the fourth quarter, Harvard-Westlake responded by answering on the boards. Trailing 39-37 with under four minutes to go, Frank pulled down two consecutive offensive rebounds and drew a foul. The freshman converted the ensuing free throws to tie the game at 39 with 3:42 to go.

Rather than panic after letting the lead slip away, De La Salle regained control using the same methods that had worked all night long. Headley found Pratt underneath to put the Spartans ahead 41-39, and after a defensive stop, Udenyi worked his magic. While his shot missed the mark with just over a minute to go, he pulled down three straight offensive rebounds and after another failed putback, the ball went out off a red jersey and De La Salle retained possession with a two-point lead and just 61 seconds to go.

That sequence exemplified Udenyi’s role for the Spartans. While he’s not a brilliant finisher, he’s a stellar rebounder and has the physical presence to control the game whether or not he’s scoring.

He did, however, score the basket that effectively put the nail in the coffin with just under 30 seconds to play. With the shot clock winding down, just as the Spartans drew it up, Colby Orr found Udenyi underneath for the last of his eight points on the night to seal an upset win for De La Salle.

Stanley did throw down an authoritative two-handed dunk with 0.8 left on the clock to become the lead scorer for the game, but it was De La Salle who escaped with the win.

Udenyi finished with just eight points, but he also racked up four assists and a game-high 15 rebounds, including seven on the offensive end. Headley had 13 points, all in the first three quarters, and Pratt finished with 15 points and six rebounds for De La Salle (12-4). Stanley led Harvard-Westlake (12-7) with 16 points and seven rebounds.