CLOSE "Boy Scouts," which includes kids from 10 to 17, will become "Scouts BSA" in February in an effort to become less gender specific, now that girls may join the Boy Scouts. Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

The first girl Cub Scouts in Michigan were officially inducted on May 1. (Photo: Michael Kuentz)

A Cub Scout troop in Dearborn is celebrating its first female members just as the Boy Scouts of America announced it is dropping the word "boys" from its title.

Cub Scout Pack No. 112 inducted nine girls as members at a ceremony Tuesday at the First United Methodist Church on Garrison Street: Lillian Britt, Luna Britt, Rosemary Calder, Courtney Ehnis, Alice Ferguson, Eleanore Jezewski, Caroline Kuentz, Gabriella Schneidt, and Elizabeth Woolley.

The pack is one of only a handful in the country that featured "cub cadets." The program allows a scout's younger siblings, including girls, to participate in activities minus official recognition by the Boy Scouts of America or advancements.

The Boy Scouts of America board of directors announced in October that the group would admit girls, creating the Family Scouting program. Pack 1112 became an "early adopter" because of its cub cadet program. Other packs across the country are opening the program to girls starting in June.

"The Boy Scouts saw the writing on the wall. They saw their numbers dwindle. It's either evolve or dissolve," said Michael Kuentz of Dearborn, whose 8-year-old daughter, Caroline, joined Pack 1112.

The umbrella organization will retain its name, Boy Scouts of America or BSA. The term Cub Scouts, for kids 7-10 years old, is gender neutral and also will go unchanged. Boy Scouts, which includes kids from 10 to 17, will become Scouts BSA in February.

Chief Scout Executive Mike Surbaugh also unveiled the group's new "Scout Me In" marketing campaign aimed at promoting inclusiveness.

“As we enter a new era for our organization, it is important that all youth can see themselves in Scouting in every way possible," Surbaugh said.

Read more:

Kuentz said the Dearborn Pack's Cub Cadet program promotes a high retention rate. Younger siblings in the pack, like Caroline, tended to stick with scouting because they could do the same activities as their big brothers — camping, hiking, canoeing or shooting BB guns.

"(The girls) loved it," Kuentz, adding that Caroline joined her big brother in scouting when she was 4.

“We are excited about the Family Scouting Program because we have known all along that girls can be just as good at being a scout as the boys can," Pack 1112 Cub Master Tom Stechow said in a written statement.

Under the Family Scouting program, girls 6-12 will be using the same curriculum as their male peers to earn adventure-loops, participate in the same activities, advance to the same ranks and have the opportunity to become Eagle Scouts.

The change hasn't gone unnoticed by the Girl Scouts.

In a statement on its website Wednesday, the organization responded to the Boy Scouts' drive to add girls and the new name by emphasizing that "a girl learns best in an all-girl, girl-led, and girl-friendly environment."

Sylvia Acevedo, CEO of Girls Scouts of the USA, emphasized the group's efforts to focus on things like STEM activities, outdoor programming and community projects.

“Girl Scouts is the premier leadership development organization for girls,” Acevedo said in a statement. “We are, and will remain, the first choice for girls and parents who want to provide their girls with opportunities to build new skills."

For girls like Caroline, it means doing double duty.

Kuentz said Caroline not only is a Wolf Scout, but a Girl Scout.

"She was a Daisy last year, and she's a Brownie this year," he said. "She can do both ... you can do anything you want."

Kuentz said that just because the Boy Scouts of America Organization is welcoming girls, doesn't mean that girls should be dissuaded from joining Girl Scouts. He said that the Girl Scouts is a phenomenal program, but he found that their programming focused more on arts and crafts, while his daughter was getting excited about the things her brother was doing with the Cub Scouts.

"My daughter was seeing my son, and saying, 'I want to do this, I can do this,' " he said.

However, as to whether or not Caroline's new Cub Scouts rank will affect her membership in Girl Scouts, Kuentz said, "that's her decision."

According to a USA TODAY report, both the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts have seen their numbers drop in recent years.

Boy Scouts of America claims almost 2.3 million members, down from 2.6 million five years ago. That includes Venturing and Sea Scouting programs, the latter allowing membership up to 21 years of age. In its peak years, Boy Scout of America had more than 4 million participants.

Last year, the Boy Scouts announced it would accept and register transgender youths into its organization.

In 2015, it ended its ban on gay leaders.

Girl Scouts, founded two years after Boy Scouts, currently claims a membership of about 1.8 million. And like BSA, it also has seen a membership decline.

USA TODAY reporter John Bacon contributed

Contact Aleanna Siacon: ASiacon@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @AleannaSiacon.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rkG5jc