When singer Dee Dee Bridgewater was a teenager growing up in Flint, Mich., she found comfort and inspiration from a radio station broadcasting out of Memphis, Tenn., where she was born.

Ensconced in her bedroom at night, she would tune in WDIA, where music from Memphis came pouring forth.

“I would sneak and listen,” remembers Bridgewater. “I couldn’t get it until 11 at night. I would put a pillow under my door and the radio under blankets and stuff, so my parents couldn’t hear it.

“I called it my secret garden.”

Last year, Bridgewater returned to that magical place in the form of “Memphis ... Yes, I’m Ready,” one of the most compelling albums of the year — even if purists protested that it didn’t fit certain definitions of jazz. But Bridgewater’s natural feel for the cadences and rhythms of music of her birthplace (where she spent the first three years of her life), rendered stylistic boundaries irrelevant.

More important, one of the most accomplished female singers in jazz was applying her formidable technique and fertile imagination to sounds born of the same source as jazz: African antiquity. She’ll perform this music Friday night in Orchestra Hall at Symphony Center.

But for Bridgewater, “Memphis … Yes I’m Ready” was more than an exercise in cross-genre music-making or nostalgic musical tourism.

“I was looking for something to do that would be fun, that would be simple, that could make me dance, because I was getting toward the end of my mother’s transition and feeling a bit depressed,” says Bridgewater, whose mother has since died.

Bridgewater hoped she might find solace in the earthy, ebullient music of Memphis she’d heard in her bedroom as a teen. Flash forward to 2016, when her conversations with jazz musicians born and raised in the traditions of Memphis led her to believe she was right.

“I had done my first gig with (pianist) Harold Mabern, and he was talking about how fabulous my father was,” adds Bridgewater, referring to Matthew Garrett, a trumpeter dubbed “Matt the Platter Cat” as a WDIA DJ before the family moved to Michigan.

“I had done a TV show with (saxophonist) Charles Lloyd, and he told me so much stuff about my father. So I said: Let me go back and see what I could find out.”

Bridgewater began envisioning a rather grand venture linking the sounds of two continents.

“I had originally planned to do a big blues project connecting the ‘Red Earth’ music — the African music from Mali — with the Delta blues,” explains Bridgewater, referencing her album of 2007. “Because the Delta blues, I really, really feel is a direct offshoot of Malian music and the kora (an instrument like a harp) and everything. So I was going to do this big, massive project.”

But as Bridgewater was walking through the Memphis airport one day, her ear latched onto something on the sound system: “‘B-A-B-Y’ came on by Carla Thomas,” she says, “and the lightbulb went off: This is what I know.” For recordings by Memphis soul queen Thomas and others had provided the soundtrack of Bridgewater’s youth.

Newly inspired, Bridgewater immersed herself in a musical culture that has played in her imagination ever since. The “Memphis” project has revealed a great deal to her about how this music works.

“It’s about being repetitive,” says Bridgewater, referring to the vamps, hooks and incantatory qualities of music of Memphis.

“There is something beautiful in being repetitive and hitting grooves and staying in the groove. It’s very African. When I had done ‘Red Earth,’ when you listen to African music, it’s about the groove. They stay in that groove, they don’t go away from that groove.

“In jazz, we have a tendency to feel we can’t lay in a pocket too long. We have to mix it up, so we’re constantly inventing, reimagining. But I’m digging this pocket stuff, and I’m seeing the beauty of that. It almost becomes trancelike.”

Which is precisely the idea.

Bridgewater says it took her a while to get comfortable with the technical and stylistic demands of this music, but she’ll be facing a dual challenge during the Orchestra Hall concert. After singing music of Memphis on the first half, she’ll switch to deep-swing jazz as guest soloist with the Count Basie Orchestra.

That has to be a huge leap to make in a rather short period of time.

“When they called me about it, I said: That’s a little schizophrenic, don’t you think?” remembers Bridgewater.

But she was “intrigued” by the challenge.

In a best-case scenario, what does she wish to happen?

“I’m hoping when folks come, we get people up out of their seats and have them moving around,” says Bridgewater, referring to the Memphis material. “It’s a music that makes you want to groove.

“They can sit back down with the Basie Orchestra.”

Though that, too, might be difficult.

Howard Reich is a Tribune critic.

hreich@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @howardreich

When: 8 p.m. Friday

Where: Orchestra Hall at Symphony Center, 220 S. Michigan Ave.

Tickets: $36-$57; 312-294-3000 or www.cso.org

RELATED: Dee Dee Bridgewater lights up the Chicago Jazz Festival »

Dee Dee Bridgewater channels Lady Day »

Bridgewater at high tide at Showcase »

Check out the latest movie reviews from Michael Phillips and the Chicago Tribune.