CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Following Memorial Day, 'Deferment Donald' Trump went back to work launching a twitter strike against Marine Robert Mueller, claiming the Special Counsel's squad of prosecutors will be meddling in the midterm elections.

"The 13 Angry Democrats (plus people who worked 8 years for Obama) working on the rigged Russia Witch Hunt, will be MEDDLING with the mid-term elections, especially now that Republicans (stay tough!) are taking the lead in Polls. There was no Collusion, except by the Democrats!," tweeted Trump.

Special Counsel Robert Mueller is a REPUBLICAN. He was a REPUBLICAN when he was appointed by REPUBLICAN Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein after Trump fired REPUBLICAN FBI Director James Comey.

Mueller was a REPUBLICAN when he was named Director of the FBI, by REPUBLICAN President George W. Bush, going on to being the longest-serving FBI Director since J. Edgar Hoover.

Mueller was a REPUBLICAN when Trump considered naming him his FBI Director.

Mueller was a REPUBLICAN when he served in the U.S. Marine Corps during the Vietnam War.

Mueller was a REPUBLICAN when he received medals for his actions in the Vietnam war, while Trump won a 'Yellow Heart' and 'Bronze Bone Spur Star' for obtaining FIVE DEFERMENTS.

Last week, a reader asked in the comment section, what, if anything, Mueller's Russia investigation has produced?

As of the one year anniversary of Mueller being named Special Counsel, 19 people and 3 Russian companies have been indicted, and are facing trial, or plead guilty and are cooperating with Mueller's investigation.

Trump's former campaign manager Paul Manafort has been indicted on multiple charges and is awaiting trial in Virginia.

Trump's former deputy campaign manager Rick Gates has plead guilty to charges and is cooperating with Robert Mueller's investigation.

Trump's former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn has plead guilty to charges and is cooperating with Robert Mueller's investigation.

Trump's attorney and 'fixer' Michael Cohen has had his home and offices raided. Cohen's business associate has plead guilty to charges and his cooperating with Department of Justice prosecutors.

The New York Times reported Tuesday evening that Trump's Attorney General Jeff Sessions is a key witness in Mueller's investigation of possible Trump obstruction of justice.

The NYT reported on a previously undisclosed meeting in which Trump reportedly pressured Sessions to take control of Mueller's investigation, despite Session having recused himself. It adds to the list of multiple occasions Trump bemoaned Session's recusing himself.

Just as he did in Vietnam, Special Counsel Mueller is doing his job, honoring those who gave their lives fighting for and defending America's democratic principals, as 'Dishonest Donald' Trump dishonors the party of 'Honest Abe' Lincoln.