CLOSE Vegas Golden Knights forward Tomas Tatar, traded from the Detroit Red Wings during this season, fields questions just before the Stanley Cup final. Adam Candee, Special to Detroit Free Press

Tomas Nosek beats Washington Capitals goalie Braden Holtby in the third period to put the Vegas Golden Knights ahead 5-4. He later added an empty-netter. (Photo: Harry How, Getty Images)

Time for a Detroit Red Wings mailbag. Thanks as always for the many great questions.

Nosek playing very well while Tatar can’t even crack the lineup. Do the wings mismanage their talent that poorly? — everyone stop it (@foolkllr) May 30, 2018

HSJ: It’s a small sample size so far, but Tomas Nosek looks like he’s a playoff performer. He had seven goals in 67 regular-season games with the Vegas Golden Knights and already had scored three goals in 13 playoff games. Last year, he led the Grand Rapids Griffins in goals (10) and points (22) in 19 AHL playoff games. Now he’s starring on Vegas’ fourth-line alongside Pierre-Edouard Bellemare and Ryan Reaves. Not bad for a guy who went undrafted.

More: How Red Wings castoff Tomas Nosek became Game 1 hero in Stanley Cup

Tomas Tatar has been a spectator most of the playoffs (he’d appeared six times through Vegas’ first 16 postseason games, scoring one goal) after scoring just four goals among six points in 20 games since being traded (he had 16 goals, 28 points in 62 games with the Wings). I’m not sure how Tatar being unable to gain a foothold in Vegas is mismanagement on the Wings’ part. General manager Ken Holland got a first-round pick in 2018, a second-round pick in 2019 and a third-round pick in 2021 in return for Tatar. I do still think Tatar will ultimately turn out to be a good move for Vegas — he’s hit 20 goals four straight seasons.

More: Tomas Tatar finally enjoys Vegas' Stanley Cup run

The Wings lost Nosek in last summer’s expansion draft, when they left him unprotected (along with Riley Sheahan and Petr Mrazek, among others). The seven forwards protected were Frans Nielsen (because of contractual obligations), Justin Abdelkader, Andreas Athanasiou, Anthony Mantha, Gustav Nyquist, Tatar and Henrik Zetterberg (Dylan Larkin was exempt because he had less than two years of professional experience). Of those, I’d argue the Wings could have protected Nosek and exposed Abdelkader, because there was little likelihood Vegas would take on a player signed through 2022-23. None of the guys they drafted had that kind of term.

More mailbags:

Could Henrik Zetterberg be traded?

What are chances of Andreas Athanasiou trade?

Another option would have been to pre-arrange who Vegas would take in the draft (like Sheahan) but it would have cost an asset. Minnesota gave the Knights Alex Tuch to select Erik Haula (both are key contributors). Florida gave them Reilly Smith to select Jonathan Marchessault (they are top two on the team in playoff goals and scoring). Columbus included a first-round pick in 2017 to select William Karlsson (third on the team in playoff scoring). Pittsburgh gave the Knights a second-round pick to select Marc-Andre Fleury (a Conn Smythe Trophy candidate).

More: Vegas Golden Knights: How these long shots reached Stanley Cup finals

Defense prospect Filip Hronek is a candidate to play next season with the Red Wings. (Photo: Dennis Wierzbicki, USA TODAY Sports)

1. Is team willing to forgo next season to develop youth and try to sign UFA D next offseason to get back to contention?

2. Which UFAs do you see available to flip at next trade deadline? — Kevin Movius (@kmovius) May 30, 2018

HSJ: The emphasis will remain what it has been the last few seasons — drafting and developing. The Wings went into 2017-18 with the front office and coaching staff wanting to see Anthony Mantha and Andreas Athanasiou have room to claim bigger roles. Headed into next season, the expectation is forward Michael Rasmussen is ready to claim a job in Detroit, along with one of the defense prospects — Dennis Cholowski or Filip Hronek, and maybe Joe Hicketts.

As far as "willing to forgo next season" — there’s no appetite to deliberately play poorly. And the plan all along has been to regain competitiveness as quickly as possible.

Regarding the second question, Gustav Nyquist is a candidate to be moved next season, as he’ll be in the last year of his contract (he’d have to agree, as he has a no-move clause). He’ll appeal to a team looking for scoring help. The other Wings headed for UFA status next summer are Jimmy Howard, Niklas Kronwall and Luke Witkowski. I don’t see Howard being traded — more likely, his contract gets extended for a year or two, if he plays as well as he has the past two seasons.

Red Wings' Niklas Kronwall, 37, missed the first three games of the 2017-18 season, but he played the entire rest of the season. (Photo: Gregory Shamus, Getty Images)

Do you think Kronwall will take a back room deal to ride off into the sunset on LTIR to free up a roster spot and cap space? Those knees ain’t getting any younger... #HeleneOnHockey — Probably A Nick Landry Sock Puppet Account (@twittahlessJ) May 30, 2018

HSJ: When I spoke to him at locker clean out day (April 10), Niklas Kronwall sounded like a guy eager to return. He missed the first three games of 2017-18, but played every game after that. He’ll turn 38 midway through next season, and he’s got hard miles on his body, but he is still a smart player, and a team leader. So barring some offseason setback, I see him playing out the last year of his contract.

That said, I’d still expect there to be an opening — there are six regulars under contract for next season, but that includes Xavier Ouellet, who no longer seems to fit into the Wings’ plans. So I do think there there will be at least one fresh young face on the next season’s defense.

Contact Helene St. James: hstjames@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @helenestjames. Check out our Red Wings Xtra app on Apple and Android!