CLOSE The Detroit Lions made their new assistant coaches available to the media on Tuesdsay, May, 29, 2018, and our writers shared their thoughts. Dave Birkett and Carlos Monarrez and Orion Sang, Detroit Free Press

Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford and Jim Bob Cooter talk during OTAs on Thursday, May 24, 2018, at the Allen Park practice facility. (Photo: Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press)

The Detroit Lions had the NFL's seventh-best scoring offense last season, and Jim Bob Cooter expects to be even better calling plays this fall.

“I plan on improving personally every year," Cooter said Tuesday. "I’ve learned at this point not to think that I have all the answers or even most of the answers. I’m getting better every year. Every year I figure out something that I go, ‘Man, a year ago I didn’t see it that way and now I do.’ I think I understand it better. But this is a complex league. You got to stay fluid."

The Lions had one of the best downfield passing attacks in the NFL last season, a change from Cooter's first full year as offensive coordinator in 2016 when they moved the ball primarily by dinking and dunking their way downfield.

More: Detroit Lions Paul Pasqualoni, back with Patricia, wants smart, tough D

Cooter declined to identify what areas he's targeting for improvement this season, but one obvious one is the running game.

The Lions ranked last in the NFL in rushing last season, and invested heavily in the run game this spring. They spent four draft picks on running backs or offensive linemen, including top choices Frank Ragnow and Kerryon Johnson, and signed LeGarrette Blount in free agency.

"I’m sure we’ll change plenty and I’m sure there will be a lot where you guys will look out and see some similarities," Cooter said. "We’re going to try and get better, think we’ve identified a couple ways we think we can do that. Obviously, I’m not going to tell you anything about that. But that’s the process everywhere. It’s really flawed on my part if we stay stagnant, our part. We got to adjust to the players, we got to adjust to different things going on in the league and hopefully we’re doing that."

One obvious change is the re-addition of a fullback to the Lions offense.

More: Here are 5 Detroit Lions on the hot seat entering 2018

Cooter declined to say whose decision it was to remove the fullback from the offense last year, his or former coach Jim Caldwell's, but he acknowledged running more two-back sets will change things for him as a play-caller.

"I think has an impact on the defense," Cooter said. "These days you’re seeing a lot more one-back football out there and guys are having to defend both when you’re playing a team that also plays some two-backs. So we’re evaluating all that stuff. We’re excited about the way our guys are coming along and sort of seeing where we end up as we’re practicing all that."

Secret sauce

Many NFL coaches spend time in their offseasons visiting with their college counterparts as a way to bring innovations to their playbooks.

Cooter said the most important thing he did this spring was lock himself away and study both the Lions' and other teams' offenses.

"I mean we all have some friends in this business, college, pro, wherever," Cooter said. "Sometimes guys meet and discuss things. Sometimes everybody shuts up and won’t tell anybody anything, so that goes back and forth. But there’s a bunch of tape out there, there’s no shortage of tape to study. Every play’s its own little experiment. What happened on that play? Did it work? Did it not work? And why?

"The more we can figure that out, hopefully the better position we can put out players in and at the end of the day those guys on the field are doing this whole thing. We try to get rid of the bad calls and let them go do the good calls."

Asked to name one area where he's learned to build a better figurative mousetrap, Cooter pointed to nuances within his playbook like running a route at a 14-yard depth instead of 12 yards.

"I don’t have some great story of going to some secret meeting somewhere and really hashing out the secret play that’s going to break the NFL wide open. I don't think I pulled that off yet," Cooter said. "But we’re always working to get better. I’m studying a million things. Trying for these little 1 percent improvements here, there, everywhere. And it could be something that’s obvious to you guys, to the fan at home. It could be something that’s totally not obvious but it may have a big impact at a certain moment.”

Lions running back Ameer Abdullah runs with the ball against the Bengals during the first half on Sunday, Dec. 24, 2017, in Cincinnati. (Photo: John Grieshop, Getty Images)

Expanding Ameer’s role

The additions of LeGarrette Blount and Kerryon Johnson have left Ameer Abdullah without a defined role on offense, but special teams coordinator Joe Marciano said he hopes to get the fourth-year running back more heavily involved in the return game this fall.

As a rookie, Abdullah ranked second in the NFL with a 29.1-yard kick-return average. Abdullah did not handle any return duties in 2016, when he missed most of the season with a Lisfranc injury, and he was used sparingly in that department — just eight returns and a 22.4-yard average — last year.

Marciano said he was to blame for the Lions’ league-worst 18.2-yard kick-return average last year, when Jamal Agnew handled most of the return duties and the Lions had “the worst wedge in the league.”

But Marciano noted, “I didn’t forget how to teach kickoff coverage. I was pretty good when we had Ameer back there.”

Abdullah took punt-return reps during the Lions’ first open OTA of the spring last week. And though he’s never played that position in the pros — and with Agnew likely locked into that role — Marciano said he plans to experiment with different kick-return formations before the season.

“You look at all the teams that have been great returners, well, when you’ve got Devin Hester, you’re going to be a good return team,” Marciano said. “When you’ve got that guy Kansas City’s got, that Tyreek Hill, you’re going to be a pretty good return team. When I had Ameer, we were a pretty good return team. I had some guys back when I first got in the league, the philosophy was, ‘Hey, he’ll get you 10.’ The heck with that get you 10, let’s score some touchdowns. So the guys that get you 10, they’re the guys that don’t make any bad decisions, they’ll catch the ball, but they can’t run out of sight in an hour.”

Contact Dave Birkett: dbirkett@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @davebirkett. Download our Lions Xtra app for free on Apple and Android!