CLOSE The Detroit Lions made their new assistant coaches available to the media on Tuesdsay, May, 29, 2018, and our writers shared their thoughts. Dave Birkett and Carlos Monarrez and Orion Sang, Detroit Free Press

Lions offensive lineman Frank Ragnow goes through drills during OTAs on Thursday, May 24, 2018, at the Allen Park practice facility. (Photo: Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press)

Smart and tough. Tough and smart.

This is the mantra Detroit Lions general manager Bob Quinn has preached this offseason for his players, and specifically for players in the trenches. And even more specifically, for an offensive line that sometimes was neither last season.

New offensive line coach Jeff Davidson has received Quinn’s message loud and clear. And he only repeated it about a dozen times or so Tuesday when he met with reporters for the first time.

“Overall, we’re looking for guys that are smart and tough,” Davidson said. “And beyond that there’s a lot of different type of players that if they’re good enough to play we’ll try to get them to fit our system.”

More: Detroit Lions Paul Pasqualoni, back with Patricia, wants smart, tough D

When the Lions spent two of their six draft picks this year on offensive linemen Frank Ragnow and Tyrell Crosby, Quinn was asked if it was a coincidence that neither had given up a sack in college. Quinn almost entirely dismissed the statistical glitz.

“I think they’re big, strong and tough and they’re smart,” Quinn said in April, “so those are the kind of guys that we want to bring in here.”

Like Quinn, Davidson doesn’t seem distracted by any ancillary qualities his linemen might possess. He wants smart and tough. Even when Davidson was asked if athleticism is a good trait for a backup, he passed.

“It’s funny,” he said. “Athleticism doesn’t really enter into the plan very much. Obviously, you have to have some to play the position. But, again, smart and tough are going to be the first two characteristics we start with.”

The most obvious benefit of the offensive line’s brains and brawn would be an improvement in last year’s dreadful run game. During the draft, Quinn addressed the team’s lacking toughness and mentioned the tendency for games to swing on a handful of plays.

More: Detroit Lions hoping LeGarrette Blount becomes short yardage go-to guy

“So, I think when I look back at our team last year, all those critical situations, like it’s goal line, like we can’t run the ball like half a yard, that bothered me,” Quinn said. “So, I took it upon myself to implement some changes in terms of what we want to do, what we want to look at, what we want to look like as a team.”

That makeover continues under Davidson.

“I think Bob and Matt (Patricia) have done a nice job of bringing the right kind of guys here,” Davidson said. “Again, we’re looking for smart and tough to start with. So if we’re not answering the bell there, we’re doing something wrong.

“But I don’t think you create toughness in players. I think they have it. Or they don’t. And it’s one of those things where we want to be able to find the right kind of guys that have it.”

That raises an interesting question. Four of five offensive line starters return this year, and if there were questions about their toughness last year and Davidson believes toughness is an innate quality, how can he make them tougher?

“We must have a lot to prove,” he said. “We must have a lot to prove.”

Contact Carlos Monarrez at cmonarrez@freepress.com or follow him on Twitter @cmonarrez.