CLOSE The view from inside long-vacant Michigan Central Station. JC Reindl/Detroit Free Press

Buy Photo A view of the exterior of Michigan Central Station in Detroit is seen on Wednesday September 13, 2017. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Ownership of the long-abandoned Michigan Central Station transferred in recent days, from a Moroun family company to a company whose leadership has not been identified or confirmed.

However, the Free Press did confirm that the new owner of the train station property is a company whose New York street address is also that of a law firm that has represented Ford Motor Credit in lawsuits for more than a decade.

While It is not known what, exactly, this means for Ford Motor Co., the Free Press has confirmed that ongoing talks about a potential train station acquisition in Corktown have been moving forward. It's a highly sensitive negotiation, according to parties involved.

A warranty deed dated May 22 was recorded May 23 by the Wayne County Register of Deeds, transferring ownership from the Moroun-affiliated MCS Crown Land Development Co. LLC to New Investment Properties I LLC, according to property records obtained by the Free Press.

On the same day, the Moroun land company also transferred ownership of the former Detroit Public Schools book depository building at 2231 Dalzelle St. next to the train station to New Investment Properties II LLC.

The new owners of the train depot and the book depository are new companies, according to state corporation filings. New Investment Properties I filed its organization papers with the state on Feb. 27 and New Investment Properties II filed on March 1. The filing papers do not disclose ownership.

Public records list the address for both New Investment Properties entities as the New York City-based law firm Phillips Lytle LLP; there's no record to suggest the entity receiving the property is another Moroun-affiliated real estate holding company, though it is possible.

John Roach, a spokesman for Mayor Mike Duggan, declined to comment Wednesday.

Kenneth Crystal, a spokesman for the law firm in New York City, said Wednesday he knew nothing about the transaction. Another message was left with the real estate division in upstate New York.

The warranty deed was signed by Michael Samhat, president of Crown Enterprises Inc., the Warren-based real estate development firm within the stable of shipping and trucking companies owned the Moroun family.

Samhat was out of the office and unavailable for comment.

More: Ford's Detroit train station dream: Hundreds of workers, cars of future

More: Report: Ford directors briefed on Detroit train station plan

County records also show the Moroun family's Detroit International Bridge Co. issued a quit-claim deed on May 22, transferring the train station property to MCS Crown Land Development LLC, which then issued the warranty deed transferring the property to the mystery company.

A warranty deed signifies that a property has clear title.

Samhat was not immediately available for comment.

Ford spokesman Said Deep said only: "We are very excited about our return to Detroit this year beginning with our electric vehicle and autonomous vehicle teams relocating to a historic former factory in Corktown. We expect to grow our presence in Detroit and will share more details in the future."

Ford moved its high-tech workers into The Factory at Corktown at 1907 Michigan Ave. last week.

Ford purchased The Factory property in 2017. Talks have continued with focus on properties throughout Corktown as part of a long-term strategy for Ford.

Even given Detroit's downtown resurgence in the past six years, this would be one of the most significant redevelopment projects in the city so far.

The station, out of service and closed to the public since 1988, is perhaps Detroit's most renowned urban ruin.

“This would take resurgence to a whole new level," said former Detroit City Council member Sheila Cockrel, now a member of the Corktown Business Association, in March. "Whoever does that, they will become an iconic name for rebuilding American cities."

After the annual shareholder call on May 10, Ford investors were invited to submit questions.

A Ford investor wrote, "Given the Company's dismal stock performance, please explain how the purchase of an abandoned train depot will add to shareholder value. If Ford does buy the Detroit Rail Station building in Detroit, will the building be devoted to just Ford or will parts of the building be leased out to other tenants?"



In the days following, Ford posted on its website: "We are focused on shareholder value, which is why we are making strategic choices and tough decisions that will drive greater returns. ... At the same time, we are reallocating capital to the products and markets where we have the greatest strengths and the highest potential for growth. As a company we are in a race for talent when it comes to the vehicle, software and data engineers that are developing the autonomous technology and creating mobility experiences and services that will transform the way people connect and interact. That is why we continue to build out our presence in Palo Alto, advance our software capabilities at FordLabs in Ann Arbor, transform our Dearborn Campus, and why we are moving our AV (autonomous vehicles) and EV (electric vehicle) teams to Corktown in Detroit. We expect to grow our presence in Detroit and will share more details in the future."

On May 29, Jefferies, an equity research and strategy firm, upgraded Ford stock to "buy" as a "preferred" automaker.

"Despite being perceived a laggard, we think Ford is early among global OEMs in re-evaluating how it allocates capital. ... Ford is getting no credit for ambitious but credible cost targets and for multiple operating and strategic levers still available to improve market and product exposure."

Contact Phoebe Wall Howard: 313-222-6512 or phoward@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter@phoebesaid.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2J3l5EY