CLOSE Albert Pujols picked up his 3,000th hit on May 4. Which active player will be the next one to reach the milestone? Video by Ryan Ford/DFP Wochit

Detroit Tigers' Miguel Cabrera takes practice swings in the dugout while the team plays the Tampa Bay Rays at Comerica Park on May 1, 2018. (Photo: Gregory Shamus, Getty Images)

Miguel Cabrera wanted to set the record straight with Detroit Tigers fans on Tuesday, after he says his comments about being unappreciated were misconstrued and thoughts of him returning to the Miami Marlins were incorrectly conveyed.

“I appreciate how the people treat me here,” Cabrera said. “I appreciate all these years I have here, so it’s what I said: I want to finish my career here.”

Cabrera disputed the notion that he would like to be traded while speaking with reporters before Tuesday's game against the Los Angeles Angels at Comerica Park. Former Marlins president David Samson, who currently serves as an MLB analyst for CBS Sports HQ, said May 17 that Cabrera was ready to "come home" to Miami, where he began his career in 2003.

“What I feel badly about is that he's stuck in Detroit,” Samson said. “He always wanted to come back to Miami. Every time I'd see him, over the years, at All-Star Games, (he would say) 'Hey, I'm ready to come home.' And we just didn't have the payroll capacity."

More Detroit Tigers:

Cabrera debunked the comments through a team spokesman last week by saying, “I was joking with him and he knows that. I am focused on getting back out on the field and helping my team here win. That is my focus.”

Asked again on Tuesday, Cabrera said, “I don’t know why he said that. The times when I see him, All-Star games, basketball game in Miami, I joke with him and I say that so that was a long time ago. And so I never asked to be traded there, I never ask, like, no, I ... like it here in Detroit. I love Detroit, so why am I going to go somewhere else?”

Cabrera also clarified comments he made last home stand, saying "Nobody appreciates when you play hurt, so I'm going to take my time and play when I'm good."

Cabrera said those comments were not directed toward Tigers fans, but the media.

“Sometimes, you gotta express yourself,” he said Tuesday. “Sometimes you have to say something or something like that. Not only you guys gotta say that so people can believe this side of it, too. So no, we gotta say something sometimes. Sometimes, it’s going to come out the wrong way, sometimes it’s going to come out good, but you gotta express how you’re feeling.”

Cabrera, 35, has battled a string of injuries in recent years but remains one of the best hitters in baseball. He is signed through 2023, with $182 million remaining on his contract, and is currently on the 10-day disabled list with a right hamstring strain. He is taking batting practice and has progressed through running activities in recent days, though the Tigers are not going to activate him until he’s 100 percent healthy.

Asked how close he was to returning, Cabrera said “very close.” Asked if very close meant days or weeks, he said, “Days.”

During his pregame meeting with reporters, manager Ron Gardenhire offered this update on Cabrera: “He did an awful lot the last couple of days. When he tells us he’s ready to go, we’re kind of putting all of that on his shoulders. No one can really tell him how he feels except him. He looks like he’s doing pretty good but he gets a little stiff after he runs and we want to make sure. We’re not there.”

Detailing the stiffness, Gardenhire said, “Stiff body. With all the agility running he’s doing, sideways and backwards, running and running the bases, he just gets a little stiff. And we just want it to be where it becomes normal.”

Cabrera is hitting .323 with three home runs and 21 RBIs in 26 games this season. He has been sidelined since May 4.

“I want to be on the field with my team and do everything to win games,” he said. “But you gotta understand when you can play. I think I don’t want to give myself extra time but I think I’ll hurt myself again. I try to push it and I try to come back too soon and look where I am right now.”

Contact Anthony Fenech: afenech@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @anthonyfenech.