Buy Photo Fans lights up smoke at the 85th minute of a friendly game between Detroit City FC and Venezia FC (Italy) at Keyworth Stadium, Tuesday, July 18, 2017 in Hamtramck. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

The owners of Detroit City FC agreed a while ago not to worry about things outside their control. So Major League Soccer’s announcement Tuesday that they have awarded Cincinnati an expansion club, instead of Detroit or Sacramento, has no direct bearing on DCFC.

The announcement was met with more of a shoulder shrug than anything else for DCFC co-owner Sean Mann.

It’s unclear whether the Detroit MLS group of Dan Gilbert, Tom Gores and the Ford family will continue to pursue future MLS expansion.

“Going back two-plus years now when Gores and Gilbert’s camp announced they were pursuing MLS, it certainly had an impact on us, in terms of our relationship with sponsors or even the attention it put on soccer,” Mann said. “We realized a while back that we control what we control. That’s certainly not a process that we have any bearing on. We’ve just focused on continually growing our club and navigating these waters. What happens today or even what happens whenever (MLS) announces the next two teams, doesn’t really have a bearing on our day-to-day decisions.

“We’re focused on creating a very unique, sporting experience here in Detroit and even in U.S. soccer.”

Mann said the announcement by MLS to award Cincinnati an expansion team didn’t come as a surprise.

More on Detroit City FC:

“MLS has been indicating this would be the next team announced for a while now,” Mann said. “If anything, the surprise was that it has taken this long to make the announcement.

“That being said, they said they would announce their two other (expansion) selections at some point in 2019. I gotta think Detroit is still a front-runner for those last two spots, whenever those are announced.”

MLS commissioner Don Garber said while Detroit remains in the mix for one of the two expansion franchises to be awarded for the 2022 season, the proposal to play at Ford Field "set them back."

DCFC lost, 4-1, to FC Cincinnati in the second round of the U.S. Open Cup on May 16. On Sunday, Le Rouge defeated FC Indiana, 11-0, on Sunday in Lafayette, Ind.

Detroit City FC players shake hands with members of the Northern Guard one final time after losing to Midland-Odessa FC, 1-0, following a penalty shootout in the National Premier Soccer League national semifinal Saturday, Aug. 5, 2017, at Keyworth Stadium in Hamtramck. (Photo: Beatrice Potter Special to DFP)

The teams meet against on Friday at Keyworth Stadium. DCFC’s supporters group, the Northern Guard, is raising money for the Ruth Ellis Center through pledges for every goal DCFC scores this month. The The Ruth Ellis Center mission statement is “to provide short and long-term residential safe space and support services for runaway, homeless and at-risk lesbian, gay, bi-attractional, transgender, and questioning youth.”



Mann is also overseeing the opening of busy overseeing DCFC’s new indoor soccer center, which opens in September in Detroit, and a bar/restaurant.





Contact George Sipple: gsipple@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @georgesipple.