CLOSE The Detroit Lions made their new assistant coaches available to the media on Tuesdsay, May, 29, 2018, and our writers shared their thoughts. Dave Birkett and Carlos Monarrez and Orion Sang, Detroit Free Press

Paul Pasqualoni was 10-18 at Connecticut's head coach. (Photo: Mark L. Baer, USA TODAY Sports)

Paul Pasqualoni doesn’t have any problems taking orders from his former assistants. By now, he’s had plenty of practice at it.

"They have a chance to get back at me cause I was pretty tough on them," Pasqualoni said.

Pasqualoni spent the last two seasons working for his former offensive line coach, Steve Addazio, at Boston College. Before that, he worked for his former defensive backs assistant, Brian Stewart, with the Dallas Cowboys.

Now at age 68, Pasqualoni is back as a defensive coordinator for the first time in nearly a decade, working for his former graduate assistant at Syracuse, Lions coach Matt Patricia.

The fourth-oldest defensive coordinator in the NFL, Pasqualoni met with reporters for the first time in his new position Tuesday after the Lions’ fourth organized team activity workout of the spring.

He spoke fondly of his relationship with Patricia, he regaled reporters with the story of how he initially got into coaching, and he laid out his philosophy for a Lions defense that will look dramatically different than the one that ranked third in the NFL in takeaways last year.

More: Lions defense will be 'insane' under Paul Pasqualoni

“(My) defensive philosophy is to be smart, to be tough, and that means to be able to perform at a very dependable high level on a consistent basis,” Pasqualoni said. “Like you’ve heard a hundred times, stop the run and try to make the quarterback uncomfortable. You’re not going to sack the guy, but there has to be, in a variety of ways, discomfort created for the guy playing the quarterback position. Whether it’s disguise or pressure, whatever it might be, you just can’t let quarterbacks at this level operate and be comfortable cause in the end, they’ll get you."

CLOSE Detroit Lions defensive coordinator Paul Pasqualoni speaks to the media on Tuesday, May 29, 2018, in Allen Park. Dave Birkett, Detroit Free Press

Pasqualoni is no stranger to running a defense.

He had a hand in the game-planning at Boston College, he essentially ran UConn’s defense as head coach from 2011-13, and he had two stints as a defensive coordinator in the NFL.

In 2008, Pasqualoni ran a Miami Dolphins defense that ranked in the top 10 in the NFL in points allowed. A year later, his Dolphins defense ranked in the bottom third of the league in the same category. In 2010, he finished the year as Dallas Cowboys defensive coordinator after Wade Phillips was fired as head coach.

Things have changed in the NFL, though, since Pasqualoni last ran a defense full-time.

The NFL has become much more pass-oriented in the past decade, with teams averaging 211.3 yards passing per game in Pasqualoni’s first season in Miami, compared to a record 243.8 yards passing per game a few years ago (before dipping to 224.4 yards per game last year).

Pasqualoni, who spent a season coaching the defensive lines of the Chicago Bears (2014) and Houston Texans (2015) in between his UConn and Boston College stints, said his return to college the last few years might actually help him now that he's back in the NFL.

“I think that if (NFL offenses have) changed (in the past decade), they’ve gone a little bit more to the college spread set, zone-read set,” Pasqualoni said. “So the past two years in the ACC, I promise you I’ve seen that a little bit up front and very, very close and personal. So if anything I think that’s probably helped me a little bit, it really has. And there’s been some good quarterbacks in that league, too. A couple good ones. So it’s helped.”

Pasqualoni, who coached against the likes of Deshaun Watson and Lamar Jackson in the ACC, said he first got into coaching as a way to avoid going to Vietnam for the war.

He taught health and physical education for three Connecticut schools in the early 1970s, and was a graduate assistant at Southern Connecticut and an assistant at Cheshire High with "no intentions of ever coaching in college or pro football."

"When I graduated from school, I wanted to get as many certifications in teaching as I could cause, jobs were hard and you were on your way to Vietnam or you were in school," Pasqualoni said. "So I liked the idea of being in school. And then fortunately President Nixon ended the draft. I graduated, started teaching that September, and the draft ended, otherwise I figured in a month or so I’ll teach and coach here for as long as I can, but I’m on my way to Exit 7 off the New Jersey Turnpike to Fort Dix, that’s where I figured I was going."

Pasqualoni hired Patricia as a graduate assistant at Syracuse in 2001, at the urging of then Syracuse defensive line coach George DeLeone, and Patricia has said the two have remained close ever since.

"He was a hard-working guy," Pasqualoni said. "I’m kind of a no-job-too-small kind of guy. I just love coaching and teaching, and Matt was a lot – he’s a lot the same way. Just loves to coach."

Patricia has said he'll turn play-calling duties over to Pasqualoni in Detroit despite his own defensive background, and though it's early the two appear to be working well together.

They're like-minded on the field, the product of both having ties to the Bill Parcells coaching tree, and Pasqualoni said his players have come to work with "a real good sense of urgency every day."

"Obviously we’ll have some four-man fronts and we’ll have some three-man fronts and we’ll have a variety of stuff," Pasqualoni said. "It’s been very enjoyable because the players have been really terrific and are working hard in the classroom, in the meeting room and out on the field. In the coaching staff, the guys that I have an opportunity to work with, Al Golden and Brian Stewart and Bo Davis and the support staff there, they’re just outstanding coaches. So it’s been very, very, very good."

Contact Dave Birkett: dbirkett@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @davebirkett. Download our Lions Xtra app for free on Apple and Android!