CLOSE The Detroit Lions made their new assistant coaches available to the media on Tuesdsay, May, 29, 2018, and our writers shared their thoughts. Dave Birkett and Carlos Monarrez and Orion Sang, Detroit Free Press

Lions' Jarrad Davis runs back an interception against the Packers during the first quarter Sunday, Dec. 31, 2017 at Ford Field. (Photo: Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press)

Detroit Lions linebackers coach Al Golden says his position group makes it fun to come to work everyday. Second-year linebacker Jarrad Davis is a big reason why Golden, who coached tight ends the past two seasons, is enjoying his transition over to defense.

Golden has had a chance to evaluate Davis, last year’s first-round draft pick, as the Lions go through organized team activities.

So far, so good.

“I think (Davis is) playing faster,” Golden said Tuesday afternoon while meeting with reporters. “I think he’s more comfortable. And I can see it in his body language and the energy that he’s bringing, especially pre-snap, no question about it.”

Davis, who had 96 tackles and one interception last season, went through several ups-and-downs during his rookie year. He began the season as an every-down linebacker, but suffered an injury in Week 2, struggled in pass coverage and temporarily lost his spot in nickel and dime packages. He ended the year on a high note with 12 tackles and an interception against the Green Bay Packers in Week 17.

More Detroit Lions:

Detroit Lions' Jim Bob Cooter expects improved offense, play calling

Detroit Lions Paul Pasqualoni, back with Patricia, wants smart, tough D

In Golden’s eyes, Davis “embraced the grind” and improved as the season continued. Now, it’s not only about maintaining his health, but also that level of improvement.

How big of a jump Davis makes in his second year will be crucial to the Lions' success with what Golden says is a linebacker-friendly scheme.

“There’s little things in his game that we’re trying to improve or tweak, or just make sure he’s looking at it in a different way,” Golden said. “... My job is to drill down and find the faults before anybody else does, and try to get them corrected.”

Golden said Davis needs to “elevate as a leader” by taking a bigger role within the defense. So far, Golden believes Davis has done that.

“He sets a high standard,” Golden said. “He does. He’s not afraid to hold guys accountable, starting with himself, which is a great trait.”

Tight end Eric Ebron speaks with a coach during practice Friday, July 29, 2016, in Allen Park. (Photo: Carlos Osorio, Associated Press)

One area Golden may provide a unique perspective on is pass coverage, through his background with coaching tight ends. The assistant coach said he hopes to pass on his knowledge of how offenses attack with certain formations in different situations, as well as help Davis diagnose plays quickly.

Those are the type of adjustments and improvements that might not come to light until the season begins. But Golden was adamant in saying he has already seen Davis playing at a different level.

In his words, Davis has “embraced problem-solving in this defense.”

“He’s doing a great job. It’s not easy. We’re asking a lot of them,” Golden said. “He’s coming prepared every day, working hard, holds himself to a high standard and is accountable. I think that’s the beauty of that kid. He’s fun to coach.”

Contact Orion Sang: osang@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @orion_sang. Download our Lions Xtra app for free on Apple and Android!