CLOSE The Detroit Lions made their new assistant coaches available to the media on Tuesdsay, May, 29, 2018, and our writers shared their thoughts. Dave Birkett and Carlos Monarrez and Orion Sang, Detroit Free Press

Lions running back LeGarrette Blount goes through drills during OTAs on Thursday, May 24, 2018, at the Allen Park practice facility. (Photo: Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press)

Detroit Lions running backs coach David Walker is no stranger to the criticism facing his position group — and the offense at large. Walker knows the team has struggled to run the ball the past couple years — the Lions finished last and 30th in the league in rushing offense the past two seasons — and the offense has been unbalanced as a result.

Now, he believes the Lions have made “necessary acquisitions” to improve the running game.

“We know that as an organization, that we’re maybe a little bit unbalanced with the passing game (being) more productive than the running game over the last couple of years,” Walker said. “That’s not a secret. ... I think we’re headed in the right direction.”

More: Here are 5 Detroit Lions on the hot seat entering 2018

Fixing the run game has been a recurring theme the past two offseasons. Last winter, general manager Bob Quinn shored up the offensive line by signing offensive guard T.J. Lang and right tackle Ricky Wagner in free agency. But the efforts to bolster the run game didn’t end there. The Lions drafted offensive lineman Frank Ragnow in the first round of this year’s draft, before trading up in the second round to select running back Kerryon Johnson.

According to Walker, Johnson is a “smart kid.” The bulk of what the Lions have given him in terms of learning the offense hasn’t overwhelmed him.

Johnson, though, is unproven at the professional level. Detroit has yet to see him in pads. In contrast, Walker and the Lions know what they have with LeGarrette Blount, who Walker said has been a “physical tone-setter” throughout his 10-year career.

At 6-feet, 247 pounds, Blount has a reputation for grinding out tough yards. Just two seasons ago, he rushed for 18 touchdowns with the New England Patriots.

Walker has been pleased with the intangibles Blount, who signed a one year, $2 million contract in March, has brought to the running backs room, from his leadership to past experience playing for teams with a winning culture.

But the Lions didn’t sign Blount for just those reasons. They signed him to get yards after contact.

“That’s kinda his style,” Walker said, “and that’s what we’re hoping to get this fall from him.”

More: Detroit Lions have 'big hopes' for Ameer Abdullah, run game in 2018

Walker believes a team’s tone can be set by either how physical the team appears to be or by how fast the team appears to be. Blount fits in with the former. Walker praised his vision, quickness and balance while taking contact.

“Hopefully, he’ll give us a little bit more than we had last year,” Walker said. “It’s one thing with 200-pounds of Ameer (Abdullah) or Theo (Riddick) running through the hole that you have to tackle. And it’s a totally different animal trying to tackle a 240-pound LeGarrette Blount. So we understand that hopefully will put a little bit more stress on the defense.”

Is Blount the solution to Detroit’s woes in short-yardage situations? Walker certainly hopes so.

“He’s been that guy in the past,” Walker said. “We’ll see if he’ll be that guy for us this year.”

Contact Orion Sang: osang@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @orion_sang.