Detroit Tigers starting pitcher Michael Fulmer (32) pitches in the first inning against the Los Angeles Angels at Comerica Park on Tuesday, May 29, 2018. (Photo: Rick Osentoski, USA TODAY Sports)

At Comerica Park

What happened: The Detroit Tigers lost to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, 9-2, on Tuesday night at Comerica Park. Michael Fulmer’s night was short: He allowed five runs in three-plus innings. JaCoby Jones and Jeimer Candelario homered, but it wasn’t nearly enough. Former Tiger Ian Kinsler did early damage with a three-run home run in the second inning. The Angels hit four home runs. The Tigers are 24-30.

Starting off: Fulmer was once again erratic, walking four batters total, and was hit hard in the fourth inning. There, he allowed a solo shot to Luis Valbuena and a three-run shot to former Tiger Ian Kinsler. Fulmer threw 34 pitches in the fourth, an inning which largely sank him. He pitched 3 2/3 innings, allowing five runs on six hits. His season ERA ballooned to 4.60.

More Detroit Tigers:

Justin Upton 'enjoyed every minute' of his time with Detroit Tigers

Detroit Tigers' Miguel Cabrera: 'I want to finish my career here'

At the plate: Jones hit his fourth home run of the season in the fifth inning, a solo shot to left field. It was his first since May 15. … Candelario hit his eighth of the season in the sixth, also a solo shot. He leads the team. … Victor Martinez had two hits.

On the mound: Artie Lewicki showed more improvement, allowing one unearned run on three hits in 3 2/3 innings. Lewicki walked one batter and struck out two. … Buck Farmer was blown up in the eighth inning, allowing a pair of home runs. First, Luis Valbuena hit one into the Belle Tire Blast Zone in right field. Then, Martin Maldonado hit a two-run shot. Farmer struck out Mike Trout, though.

Overseen: Angels outfielder Justin Upton received his 2017 Tiger of the Year award from the Detroit chapter of the Baseball Writers’ Association of America before the game.

Three stars: 1. Lewicki, 2. Jones, 3. Candelario

Up next: Wednesday vs. Angels at Comerica Park, 7:10 p.m.

Contact Anthony Fenech: afenech@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @anthonyfenech.

Download our Tigers Xtra app for free on Apple and Android devices!