By StoryStudio

When you arrive at Pine Ridge Vineyards, the first thing you might notice is the gorgeous ridge of pine trees or the grounds stretching out across rolling hills of vines. This legendary Cabernet Sauvignon producer has more than 160 acres across five renowned appellations in the Napa Valley: Stags Leap District, Howell Mountain, Oakville, Rutherford, and Carneros. At the winery in Stags Leap District, it’s easy to conjure up images of stags leaping across the land. What’s harder to imagine is that below the surface lies a whole other world just waiting to be explored.

Many people don’t know that deep within the ridge for which the vineyard is named are natural caves that twist and turn for almost a mile. Pine Ridge Vineyards offers tours of these amazing subterranean wine caves, and while you may be underground, the experience is elevated beyond belief.

Pine Ridge Vineyards treats guests to true vineyard-to-glass tours. There are two options: the Wine Tasting and Cave Tour and Savor Pine Ridge. Both begin in the demonstration vineyard and end with a tasting and food pairing. In the vineyard, guests learn about the farming and science that go into winemaking. Staff members demonstrate both their knowledge of wine and their enthusiasm for teaching and interacting with visitors. Under the pergola, guests learn about the estate vineyards, their history, and their growing methods.

Next, wine-loving visitors are taken into the fermentation room, where the true magic happens in huge stainless steel fermentors that transform grapes into some of our favorite wines. Here, tour staff explain the process and how it has evolved over the years. Guests also learn how the characteristics of the barrels seep into the wine, adding to the depth of flavor.

Fancy a cave tour and tasting? Book your Wine Tasting and Cave tour Use Promo Code “CAVES” to get an extra, limited wine to taste Contact the concierge at 800-575-9777 or email Concierge@PineRidgeWine.com.

From this point, the two tours diverge. The first tour option is the Wine Tasting and Cave Tour. One hundred and twenty feet below the earth and lined with barrels on either side, the cave system is immense. Staff members offer guests wine right out of one of the many barrels found deep within the twisting Cabernet caves. Guests are seated at a shared table in a magical setting illuminated by arched branches adorned with lights and a jaw-dropping sculpture by famed glass artist Dale Chihuly. This tasting pairs three wines with three cheeses. One recent tour paired a 2014 Rutherford Cabernet Sauvignon with a Manchego from Spain, a 2014 Oakville Cabernet Sauvignon with a petit brebis Agour from the French Pyrenees, and a 2013 Stags Leap District Cabernet Sauvignon with a triple cream soft Saint André from France.

To book the Wine Tasting and Cave Tour, which is available three times a day and lasts about 90 minutes, contact the Pine Ridge Vineyards concierge at 800–575–9777 or Concierge@PineRidgeWine.com.

The second tour, Savor Pine Ridge, is a creative wine and food tasting in the intimate Cellar 47, adjacent to the Cabernet caves. Named for the 47 acres of estate vineyards that Pine Ridge Vineyards owns in Stags Leap District, Cellar 47 was designed by architect Michael Guthrie. Lit by distinctive chandeliers and furnished with plush leather couches and chairs, redwood tables, and exotic carpets, it has a sophisticated yet sexy vibe.

Many in the region have called this the best food and wine pairing in Napa Valley. Winery chef Susan Lassalette works closely with winemaker Michael Beaulac to create an extraordinary culinary experience. Hosted by wine educators, this tasting pairs five estate Cabernet Sauvignon wines with five small bites. One recent menu included a 2013 Fortis Cabernet Sauvignon with a smoked duck biscuit with fig jam, the 2014 Rutherford Cabernet Sauvignon paired with a Parmesan panna cotta, and the 2013 Stags Leap District Cabernet Sauvignon with an empanada made from Niman Ranch beef.

Fancy a Savor tasting? Book this tasty tour Use Promo Code “CAVES” to get an extra, limited wine to taste Contact the concierge at 800-575-9777 or email Concierge@PineRidgeWine.com.

Visually stunning and utterly delectable, the Savor Pine Ridge tasting tour runs twice a day and lasts about 90 minutes. To book this tasty tour, contact the Pine Ridge Vineyards concierge at 800–575–9777 or Concierge@PineRidgeWine.com.

Gain premier access to the remarkable wines, tours, and tastings of Pine Ridge Vineyards, one of Stags Leap District’s most distinct producers, by joining the Appellation Society or Collectors Club. Members enjoy quarterly shipments of wine, as well as wine discounts, access to complimentary and preferred pricing on winery tours and tasting experiences, and invitations to members-only events. If you are a wine collector or connoisseur, limited and small-lot Pine Ridge Vineyards wines are available exclusively for members.

Anyone who enjoys the many other distinctive Pine Ridge Vineyards wines can purchase them online and at the vineyard. If you visit the vineyard, join Pine Ridge Vineyards staff for a vine-to-glass tasting tour and discover one of Napa Valley’s best-kept secrets lying just beneath the surface.

For more information go to www.pineridgevineyards.com.