dodge

East Coast states to coordinate deployment of EV charging hubs May 16 Author: Eric Kulisch A dozen states on the Eastern Seaboard have signed on to a strategy for building out electric vehicle charging infrastructure to make fuel access easier and encourage people to buy electric cars.



Hellcat Charger gets a nose job May 14 The new Charger nose has what Dodge calls a more prominent Air Catcher in the grille to help the supercharged 707-hp motor breathe easier



First Shift: U.S. indicts former VW CEO Winterkorn May 4 Ex-VW CEO Winterkorn faces jail time, fines in U.S.; Convoy of stolen Ram pickups; BMW profit drops; 'Leading Women' on coaching, opportunities; Dodge Hellcat's dual-snorkel hood.



ROUGH RAMP-UP April 30 Author: Larry P. Vellequette FCA US has spent more than $300 million to fix the production problems that have put the ramp-up of the 2019 Ram 1500 well behind schedule.



FCA spiffs dealers to spin Ram through loaner fleets April 25 Author: Larry P. Vellequette FCA US, battling a decline in demand for Ram pickups, is offering added April incentives to dealers in the United States who add new trucks to service loaner fleets and count them as sales.



It sure sounds like a 707-hp Ram to us April 16 If FCA US isn't planning to make a production version of its Hellcat-powered Ram Rebel TRX concept ... well, it certainly fooled us.



FCA envisions turning small Detroit plant into museum for car collection March 21 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Fiat Chrysler Automobiles will transform a small former assembly plant in Detroit where the Dodge Viper was hand built into a new home for its sprawling automobile collection.



FCA sets 2019 Ram 1500 prices from $33,340 March 6 Base pricing for the redesigned 2019 Ram 1500 will start at $33,340, including delivery -- a price that will place the pickup, in its lowest-priced configuration, $1,350 more than the 2018 model.



Dodge program prompts expansion at Grupo Antolin's Michigan plant Feb. 28 Grupo Antolin has received approval for an expanded state grant for its plans to hire an additional 210 workers to handle a Dodge program at its suburban Detroit auto interiors plant.



Ram's MLK spot a great reminder Feb. 26 I applaud Vince Bond for his stance on Ram’s use of Martin Luther King Jr.’s ode to service in the brand’s Super Bowl commercial.



Colbert runs up score on 'Dodge' Ram ad Feb. 12 Late-night comedian Stephen Colbert pokes fun at Ram's super bowl commercial that used part of a speech by Martin Luther King Jr.

