DoubleStar’s bursts onto the Bushcraft knives scene with the Path Seeker, the first blade from its collaboration with Hakim Isler, which will be on display at Table #20H at Atlanta’s Cobb Galleria Centre, June 1 – 3, 2018.

Winchester, Ky. (Ammoland.com) – DoubleStar Corp, manufacturers of high-quality, US-made AR components, rifles and pistols, will unveil the Path Seeker, its latest knife from its Edged Weapon Division, at BLADE Show 2018, to be held in the Cobb Galleria Centre in Atlanta, Georgia, June 1 – 3, 2018. The Path Seeker was made in collaboration with published author, television star and Iraqi War veteran, Hakim Isler, and will be shown to the public for the first time at the BLADE Show. It is DoubleStar’s first installment in the world of Bushcraft knives.

The Path Seeker Knife features:

Forward leading profile ideal for chopping.

Designed thick to provide durability and for wedging.

Comes with baton area on spine at head of blade.

Designed with ferrocerium rod scraper on back to preserve edge retention.

Equipped with lanyard holes for fastening.

“The construction of this knife screams indestructible and innovative. Our goal with this knife is to reach out to the experienced trailblazer with features that even the novice can depend on. Hakim’s experience in this field is rock steady, forever honing his craft, and that’s why we knew we had to team up with him to create this knife,” commented Rob Cabrera, Edged Weapon Division Director.

Path Seeker Specifications:

Designer: Hakim Isler Classification: Bushcraft Steel: 80CRV2 Thickness: 0.25” Weight: 0.91 lbs. Length: 11.25” Width: 2” Cutting Edge Length: 6” Coating: Parkerized and Tumbled Handle Material: Course textured G10 Scale Colors: Black with Flo-Yellow liner and Flo-Yellow with Grey liner Handle Hardware: Steel screws Sheath: 0.08” Black Boltron Attachment System: Large Tek-Lok Rigged Weight: 1.21 lbs. MSRP: $199.99

For more information about DoubleStar, visit www.star15.com.

About DoubleStar Corp.

DoubleStar Corp., located in Winchester, Kentucky, was formed when customers of J&T Distributing, a leading manufacturer and supplier of thousands of AR15 parts and accessories, requested complete rifles and pistols crafted from the same high-quality, U.S.-made components. DoubleStar now manufactures and supplies not only the commercial market but military and law enforcement forces across the world with rugged and dependable firearms. www.star15.com