Published author, TV Star and Iraq War Veteran, Isler to work with DoubleStar Corp. to render his design, the Path Seeker, into an affordable production knife, available at BLADE Show 2018.

Winchester, Ky. (Ammoland.com) – DoubleStar Corp, manufacturers of high-quality, US-made AR components, rifles, pistols and edged weapons, announces a new collaboration with published author, television star and Iraqi war veteran, Hakim Isler. DoubleStar will work with Isler to render his design, the Path Seeker, into an affordable production knife for its Edged Weapon Division. The knife will be debuted at BLADE Show 2018, to occur on June 1- 3, 2018 in Atlanta, Georgia.

“It has been an honor to work on bringing the Path Seeker to the market with DoubleStar,” commented Isler. “They are a quality company that seeks to maintain the highest standard of products. Working with them on this project highlighted their professionalism and willingness to give an opportunity to aspiring knife designers such as myself. They are truly a top notch company.”

Isler is the founder of Elevo Dynamics, a 24-hour family gym and martial arts facility referred to as the DOJYM (doh-gym). He has been involved in martial arts for over 30 years and the security field for 14 years. Isler is a veteran of the Iraq war and a former-member of the Army Special Operations community, serving as a Psychological Operations Sergeant. Isler holds a 4th degree black belt (Yandan) in To-Shin Do, as taught by world-renowned author and Black Belt Hall of Fame member, Stephen K. Hayes. He is also a Filipino Martial artist and teacher, holding the rank of certified instructor in FCS Kali and Guro in Black Tiger Kali. In addition, Isler teaches survival skills in North Carolina.

Isler is an honors graduate and Certified Protection Specialist through Executive Security International (ESI), where he completed over 600 study hours and practical training in principles of protection, human behavior, profiles of terrorism, counter surveillance, covert security, electronic security and bomb search and identification, to name a few. He has also published several books, including “I Choose to Act” and “Modern Hand to Hand Combat,” and has written for Off Grid Magazine. Isler has appeared on the Discovery Channel’s “Unsolved History” with Hayes in an episode about the Ninja, as well as a cast member on Discovery Channel’s “Naked and Afraid” and “Naked XL.” His most recent television appearance was on Fox’s new hit television show “Kicking and Screaming.”

Isler has served as a board member of Rape Crisis Volunteers of Cumberland County, as well as a continuing education instructor of Defenstive Tactics at Fayetteville Technical Community College. Currently, Isler serves as the founder and director of The Soil Foundation, a wilderness therapy and retreat organization dedicated to helping our nation’s heroes and youth recoup and recover from emotional challenges.

The Path Seeker collaboration will be a part of DoubleStar’s Edged Weapon line of products, which is lead by Rob Cabrera, DoubleStar’s Edged Weapon Division Director and designer of Filo Bladeworks. The Edged Weapon Division also features edged weapons designed by Ret. Sergeant Major and owner, operator and founder of TCT Knives, Darrin Sirois, as well as designs by the founder of FILIPINO COMBAT SYSTEMS, Tuhon Ray Dionaldo.

For more information about DoubleStar, visit www.star15.com.

About DoubleStar Corp.:

DoubleStar Corp., located in Winchester, Kentucky, was formed when customers of J&T Distributing, a leading manufacturer and supplier of thousands of AR15 parts and accessories, requested complete rifles and pistols crafted from the same high-quality, U.S.-made components. DoubleStar now manufactures and supplies not only the commercial market but military and law enforcement forces across the world with rugged and dependable firearms. www.star15.com