The Driver Power car customer satisfaction survey is the leading source of first hand information on the car buying and ownership experience in the UK. For 2017 though, the Driver Power survey is taking on a whole series of exciting new dimensions.

In a move that will be music to the ears of car buyers around the country, Driver Power is splitting into seven different surveys specially targeted to reveal the truth about the way we choose, buy and own our cars. The results will yield even greater insights into the best (and worst) cars, car manufacturers, car dealers, car breakdown service providers and car insurance companies, according to the people who matter most - UK motorists.

• Take the 2017 Driver Power survey here

New Driver Power will provide invaluable information for consumers on every phase of the car buying and ownership experience. Whether you’re choosing a new car from a franchised dealership, looking for a new car insurance quote or wondering which used car to pick from an online auction site, Driver Power will put the information you need to make the best decision at your fingertips.

The new Driver Power surveys will target specific groups of consumers, asking them tailored questions according to their demographic profile and the make, model and age of car they own. The result will be a comprehensive and representative set of data that you can use to inform all of your car ownership decisions and car manufacturers can use to improve their products and services.

• Driver Power 2016 results

The all-new Driver Power 2017 survey is open now. To tell us about your car, dealer, manufacturer, insurance company and/or breakdown service provider just click the link below. You’ll be directed to only to the surveys that you qualify for so the whole process will be faster than ever before too.

Driver Power 2017 is your chance to tell car manufacturers what you think of their products and services while giving fellow motorists the benefit of your experience. Don’t miss it!

Click here to take the 2017 Driver Power Survey for your chance to win £1,000 in Amazon vouchers.