By StoryStudio

































































Image 1 of / 17 Caption Close Image 2 of 17 Image 3 of 17 Image 4 of 17 Image 5 of 17 Image 6 of 17 Image 7 of 17 Image 8 of 17 Image 9 of 17 Image 10 of 17 Image 11 of 17 Image 12 of 17 Image 13 of 17 Image 14 of 17 Romantic couple drinking wine at home near fireplace Romantic couple drinking wine at home near fireplace Photo: alotofpeople - Fotolia Image 15 of 17 Image 16 of 17 Image 17 of 17 Dry Creek Inn: The relaxing wine country getaway you’ve been craving 1 / 17 Back to Gallery

Benvenuto to your relaxing Italian vacation — in Healdsburg. From the minute you arrive at Dry Creek Inn, you’ll feel like you’ve just traveled across the world to Tuscany. Vine-covered arches and pillars lead the way to your well-appointed room in either the Casa Siena building or the beautiful Villa Toscana.

Have you made plans to visit Healdsburg in the past? Yes

No View Results

Loading ... Loading ...

For travelers looking for a casual wine country getaway, Casa Siena offers the perfect blend of Sonoma charm and modern convenience. From flat screen TV’s and plantation shutters to luxurious bedding. It’s the perfect place to relax after a busy day in Sonoma Wine Country.

If you prefer something a little more intimate, the Dry Creek Inn offers the Villa Toscana, its own oasis surrounding a private piazza with Tuscan-style fountains and outdoor firepits to chase the evening chill way. The Villa rooms are perfect for a romantic getaway. Rooms have a king bed with luxurious linens, gas fireplace, jetted soaking tub, private patio or balcony, and access to one of two covered whirlpools, sauna and steam rooms. The Dry Creek Inn also features two swimming pools and a variety of intimate gathering spaces for friends and family get togethers.

Hotel guests enjoy a complimentary hot breakfast as part of their stay. For those, who are looking for a workout to start their day, meet in the beautiful Prada patio for yoga on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings with a professional instructor – also complimentary.

For those traveling in an electric car, the property is proud to offer two charging stations on property, as well as a BikeShare program for guests looking to explore wine country on two wheels. Leave the car at the hotel and take a bike along the Foss Creek Trail to downtown Healdsburg— just minutes away – or cycle to a nearby winery.

Nestled between the Russian River, Alexander Valley, and Dry Creek Valley wine regions, you’ll find Dry Creek Inn is the perfect place for wine lovers and outdoor adventurers alike. Just outside your door is access to over 150 beautiful wineries, vineyards, tasting rooms. You will also find incredible farm-to-fork cuisine, shopping, art galleries, antique shops, hot air balloon rides, historic landmarks, and spectacular golf courses. For those looking for hiking and biking trails, enjoy miles of beautiful Sonoma wilderness just minutes from the hotel.

There’s never been a better time to visit Sonoma Wine Country. For more information about Dry Creek Inn and to book your stay, visit www.drycreekinn.com, or call us directly for best available rates at 707-433-0300. We look forward to welcoming you to Healdsburg and Sonoma’s premier wine country.