CLOSE SportsPulse: A story released by 'The Ringer' alleges that Philadelphia 76ers GM Bryan Colangelo used multiple anonymous Twitter accounts to provide scoops for journalists, criticize 76ers players and his predecessor, Sam Hinkie. USA TODAY Sports

Bryan Colangelo (Photo: The Associated Press)

The Philadelphia 76ers announced Wednesday morning that they are investigating "serious" allegations of Twitter accounts belonging to president of basketball operations Bryan Colangelo.

"An online media outlet filed a story linking multiple social media accounts to 76ers President of Basketball Operations Bryan Colangelo," the team wrote in the statement. "The allegations are serious and we have commenced an independent investigation into the matter. We will report the results of that investigation as soon as it is concluded."

The Ringer, an online sports media outlet, published a story Tuesday night speculating that Colangelo might have been secretly using five Twitter accounts to monitor NBA personnel and post about the Sixers, including tweets that were critical of players on the team. The Ringer did not confirm that Colangelo was operating the accounts but used circumstantial evidence, including the text of individual tweets and whom the accounts followed, to link them to the 76ers executive.

The 76ers confirmed to The Ringer that one of the accounts, @Phila1234567, belonged to Colangelo, who used it to monitor the NBA and current events. Colangelo told USA TODAY Sports' Jeff Zillgitt on Tuesday night that he has no knowledge of the origin or motives of the other four Twitter accounts.

Some of the tweets from the accounts in question defended Colangelo and criticized some of the 76ers' most prominent players, including Jahlil Okafor, Markelle Fultz and Joel Embiid. Embiid, the reigning All-Star who has long had a penchant for social media, reacted to the report by liking some of the tweets from the accounts named by The Ringer that were about him.

"Fun night on Twitter lmao," Embiid wrote in one tweet. "All jokes asides (sic) I don't believe the story. That would just be insane."

Fun night on Twitter lmao.. All jokes asides I don’t believe the story. That would just be insane — Joel Embiid (@JoelEmbiid) May 30, 2018

ESPN reported Wednesday morning that Colangelo has reached out to individuals mentioned in some of the tweets from the accounts in question and insisted that he is not responsible for them.

The Ringer's story largely overshadowed news that coach Brett Brown has agreed to a three-year contract extension with the 76ers and has created a buzz among NBA fans at a time when most of the league's attention has, in years past, been concentrated on the NBA Finals, which begin Thursday.

Contact Tom Schad at tschad@usatoday.com or on Twitter @Tom_Schad. Follow Jeff Zillgitt on Twitter @JeffZillgitt.