1:33 Ever wonder what a dominatrix would do to Harvey Weinstein? Wonder no more! Harvey Weinstein needs to learn consent — the hard way. Venus, a New York-based dominatrix, detailed how she would use BDSM roleplay to treat an alleged sexual predator like Weinstein. “The first thing I would do with Harvey is make him identify that he is a piece of s---,” she told The Post.

3:32 Intimidated by Tinder? Here’s how to score big From Tinder to Bumble, the world of online dating can be confusing. This installment of “Pop Culture Crash Course” teaches us all about dating apps. Mark is a boomer looking for love. Alyssa is a funny millennial here to explain the modern world to him.

3:00 You're not 'multi-tasking' — you're half-assing Your brain isn’t capable of checking your phone and listening at the same time. That’s the message Steve McClatchy wants to spread to people who think they’re good at multi-tasking. The CEO of Alleer Training claims the human mind can only effectively do one high-quality “thinking” task at a time. Truly effective multi-taskers are actually good at juggling routine tasks, like making a sandwich, that they can do on “automatic pilot.”

3:18 Confused about dabbing? If this dad can 'dab,' so can you This installment of “Pop Culture Crash Course” teaches us about dabbing — the popular dance move originated in a Migos music video. Mark is a boomer hoping to better connect with his teenage daughter. Alyssa is a funny millennial ready and willing to explain the world to him.

2:08 A new vagina could save your marriage Women are going under the knife to improve the look and feel of their vaginas. Dr. Amir Marashi, aka the Vagina Whisperer, says his procedures, which cost up to $12,000, have saved couples who were on the verge of divorce. “The woman who says, 'Oh, I never get orgasms.’ Now she wants to have sex all the time,” the cosmetic gynecologist told The Post.

3:06 Unpacking the hype over Cardi B This installment of “Pop Culture Crash Course” teaches us all about Cardi B, the Bronx native who rocketed to the top of the charts with her hit song “Bodack Yellow.” Mark is a boomer hoping to better connect with his teenage daughter. Alyssa is a funny millennial ready and willing to explain the world to him.

2:14 This babe gets off putting the family jewels under lock and key Penis cages are all the rage in the BDSM community. Bondage professional Elise Graves spoke with The Post about the various devices used for restricting a man’s junk. From medieval-inspired belts to penis cages, male chastity is surprisingly popular in the sex toy world. “There is a c--k cage,” Graves explained. “And there’s something called a ‘keyholder.’ A person cannot get out of their cage unless I choose to allow that.” For those looking to try out this kink, affordable cages start at $15 online.

3:19 These dating-app red flags terrify women What goes through a woman’s mind when she’s swiping left on Tinder? NYPost.com producers Stephanie, Kayla and Brian sit down with the popular dating app to expose the biggest red flags men are hanging on their online profiles. The list of no-nos includes sketchy shirtlessness and mysterious women popping up in the profile pics. “Girls don’t like seeing girls in your profile,” Stephanie explained. “Then I got to look at the profile to see if you’re a couple looking for a good time.”

3:05 Confused about fashion? Here's the skinny on 'millennial pink' Fashion goes right over baby boomer Mark's head. Luckily, millennial Alyssa is teaching this single dad about one of today's biggest trends with the young'uns: millennial pink. From fashion week to happy hour, Alyssa schools Mark in the color that's totally taking over.