CLOSE “Bachelor” contestant Lauren Burnham was the passenger and Arie Luyendyk Jr. was the driver for a two-seat ride before Sunday’s IndyCar race. Luyendyk and Burnham are engaged to be married after a controversial finish to the ABC series. Video provided by Verizon IndyCar Series

Arie Luyendyk Jr. and his fiancee Lauren Burnham, walk the red carpet during the 102nd running of the Indy 500 at Indianapolis Motor Speedway on Sunday, May 27, 2018. (Photo: Michelle Pemberton/IndyStar)

Arie Luyendyk Jr. spent Tuesday night mingling with a small crowd, chatting with the occasional reporter and waiting for his turn to race go-karts at the Doug Guthrie Memorial Grand Prix Karting Challenge.

It’s the type of night Luyendyk has come to look forward to. They come few and far between for the SPEED Energy Stadium SUPER Trucks driver — who you may also know from America’s most popular dating competition.

“It’s nice to kinda get back to normal life and come to events like this, that I’ve come to for the last five years,” Luyendyk told the Free Press ahead of this weekend’s Detroit Grand Prix. “It’s nice to have some normalcy.”

More: 2018 Detroit Grand Prix: What to know about races on Belle Isle

Life has changed dramatically for Luyendyk since he began starring on reality television. In 2012, Luyendyk finished runner-up in season 8 of The Bachelorette. This past winter, he starred in the latest season of The Bachelor — a season that had its fair share of drama.

In the finale, Luyendyk made perhaps the biggest decision of his life, promptly becoming a villain in the eyes of many. After asking Becca Kufrin to marry him, breaking up with Laura Burnham in the process, Luyendyk walked back his proposal to Kufrin in hopes of reconciling with Burham. The footage of him notifying Kufrin of his intentions was used by the show. While Luyendyk says he has never watched the episode, he is open about his displeasure with how the show edited the footage. He takes full ownership of what he did and the things he said, but believes it “wasn’t a favorable edit.”

Despite that, Luyendyk has no regrets about doing the show. After all, he’s happily engaged to Burnham. In fact, the whole experience may have only strengthened the couple’s relationship, according to Luyendyk. He says taking the risk to win her back showed Burnham that he really cared, because he knew it would hurt his reputation.

It’s something that Luyendyk will most likely be asked about for the rest of his life. Either way, he and Burnham have moved forward. The two have planned their wedding for Jan. 12; Luyendyk says it will be at an old sugar mill in Maui.

“I was just trying to follow my heart,” Luyendyk said. “At the end of the day, it’s a TV show and a lot of people are very passionate about it. But the bigger picture is that this is my life, and I had to make a decision for myself.

More: Indy 500 champ Will Power speeding to Detroit Grand Prix - after a nap

“Definitely wasn’t a popular decision, but I think I’m happy with where I’m at today, and if I didn’t go through that tough time, who knows if I’d be here now.”

He doesn’t think his time in reality television has affected his racing career, positive or negatively. He gets an occasional ribbing from other drivers, who say their wives made them watch the show. But Luyendyk says it’s all in good fun. Perhaps the biggest difference for him now, post Bachelor, is that he has someone to share his experiences on the circuit with.

“I’ve raced my entire life, and it’s something cool that I can share with Lauren and travel the world,” Luyendyk said. “It’s been a blast. We just came off of a trip where we went to Australia and I raced in Perth. So I grabbed a win there and it was really fun to have Lauren there to share in that moment.

“That’s what I’ve always wanted, to be able to travel with someone and go through this crazy experience, which is life, with somebody.”

Contact Orion Sang: osang@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @orion_sang.

