Share This Story Tweet Share Share Pin Email

Michigan State Police reprimanded Trooper Mark Bessner for violating police procedures during a March 2017 high-speed pursuit.

Among the misconduct cited: Bessner joined the chase without activating his emergency lights, sirens or recording equipment.

Five months later, he was accused of violating procedures again — this time with deadly results.

The death of 15-year-old Damon Grimes, who crashed his ATV after Bessner fired a Taser at him during a chase on Detroit's east side, was the latest and most severe in a string of disturbing episodes involving the trooper, who resigned amid a criminal investigation into his conduct.

Records the Free Press obtained under the Michigan Freedom of Information Act show Bessner was involved in 40 "use of force" incidents in less than four years, including one just three days before Grimes’ Aug. 26 death.

Bessner also had been disciplined previously for misusing his Taser, a device that delivers an electrical shock to temporarily immobilize its target.

“It doesn’t sound like he should be a police officer. ... Those are totally inappropriate behaviors," said Geoff Alpert, a professor of criminology at the University of South Carolina who has researched police pursuits for more than 30 years.

Video, which the Free Press also received in its records request to State Police, appears to show the overhead emergency lights on Bessner’s vehicle turned on after Grimes slammed his ATV into a parked truck on Rossini near Gratiot.

“If you hit the driver (with the Taser), you’ve now disrupted all of his muscular responses and he can’t drive; he can’t steer. He’s going to crash," Alpert said. “I don’t know what other response you’d expect.”

Grimes suffered massive head trauma and died. Bessner, 44, now faces charges of second-degree murder and involuntary manslaughter.

Dennis Kenney, a former police officer who has studied pursuits and is a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York, said he has never heard of an officer tasing someone from a moving vehicle.

"I’m not familiar with any other case where this has occurred," Kenney said. "It is such a bad practice that I would be very surprised to see anything comparable to this any place else."

Bessner joined the State Police in 2012. The first notation in records for misconduct is from 2014, when he fired his Taser at a handcuffed suspect who kicked at him, personnel records show.

“Don’t you f--king kick me,” Bessner yelled, according to a document outlining the misconduct.

“Trp. Bessner tased the subject four times with the final time being while he was handcuffed and while Trp. Bessner used profane language toward the subject while the subject tried to kick him,” reads another document. “Clearly in this instance, Trp. Bessner was using the Taser as punishment or retaliation for being kicked at by the subject.”

Bessner agreed to a five-day suspension. Four of those days were held in abeyance, meaning he didn't have to serve them unless he got into trouble again later on.

Then, in 2016, the State Police sought to suspend Bessner for 10 days after he fired his Taser at another handcuffed man.

Bessner and his partner stopped the man’s vehicle in Detroit for speeding and not having a license plate. They said they found marijuana, codeine cough syrup and two handguns inside, a record shows. The suspect was handcuffed and standing in front of the patrol car when he bolted, running between houses and over fences.

Bessner, believing the man may have slipped out of his cuffs, chased the suspect and tased him. As the man started to get up, Bessner tased him again.

In that case, arbitrator Steven Lett declined to impose the 10-day suspension, saying that while policy precludes deploying a Taser on a "handcuffed or secured prisoner" in most cases, the man in question was not secured, but a felon on the run.

Lett — in a decision released just two months before Grimes’ death — wrote there was no just cause to discipline Bessner.

Bessner was cited for misconduct a third time for the March 2017 police pursuit. State Police said he engaged in “emergency driving” to assist with a pursuit when three or more patrol vehicles already were involved.

He also was accused of:

Failing to ensure his audio and video recording equipment was activated and remained on.

Failing to activate his emergency lights and sirens.

Failing to operate his patrol vehicle “at a careful and prudent speed not greater than reasonable and proper.”

“Your conduct was unbecoming (of) a member and not in keeping with the highest standards of the MSP,” the document reads. “Your conduct reflected poorly upon yourself and impaired the efficiency of the department.”

It's unclear from records how, or if, the latest misconduct charge was resolved before Bessner left the force in the wake of Grimes' death.

Bessner, who is also a licensed lawyer and lives in Grosse Pointe Farms, joined the State Police after working as an officer in Canton for morethan three years.

Court records show he has been sued for using excessive force.

A federal lawsuit, filed in 2013 against multiple troopers and settled a year later, alleged that Bessner “repeatedly struck” and “gratuitously kneed” the unarmed plaintiff, who was arrested but never charged with a crime.

Bessner's attorney, Richard Convertino, agreed to an interview with the Free Press, but then didn't respond to requests to schedule it.

Investigators test the lights

In the incident involving Grimes, security camera footage from a nearby business appears to show that the lights atop Bessner’s patrol car activated 24 seconds after the crash — raising questions about whether they were on at all as troopers pursued the 15-year-old.

Alpert said it's critically important in a pursuit for police to use their car's emergency lights and sirens.

“If you don’t have overhead lights on, you’re not indicating to the driver what you want him or her to do,” he said.

The day of the crash and again two days later, Michigan State Police issued news releases that said the lights and sirens had been activated prior to the crash.

“The troopers activated their emergency lights and siren and attempted to stop the ATV,” State Police said in a release on the night of the crash. “The driver of the ATV refused to stop and a pursuit ensued.”

When asked on Tuesday whether the overhead lights were on, First Lt. Mike Shaw said he couldn't talk about it.

“That’s part of the court case," he said.

After the crash, State Police tested the vehicle’s lights, switch box and siren, records show. The systems were found to be working normally.

Troopers said Grimes was traveling about 35 mph. A test performed by Lt. Michael McCarthy suggests the police car trying to catch up to him may have reached speeds of up to 60 mph.

Another lieutenant who requested the test from McCarthy "described to me the route that was performed was a U-turn, short acceleration, a hard left turn, and then an acceleration up to approximately 60 mph,” McCarthy wrote in his report.

Bessner was the passenger in the patrol car as his partner, Trooper Ethan Berger, drove.

When any two troopers are together, they decide between themselves who operates the lights, Shaw said.

Berger said they started the pursuit after witnessing Damon performing a wheelie and then racing toward their patrol car. What happened after that is redacted from the report State Police provided to the Free Press.

Alpert said police pursuits pose significant safety risk to officers, suspects and the public and should be used only in cases of suspected violent crimes. He said police agencies nationwide increasingly have restricted pursuits to reduce those risks.

He described the circumstances of the Grimes chase as “one of the weirdest things I’ve ever heard.”

Even if Bessner hadn’t fired a Taser, a pursuit would have been dangerous, Alpert said.

After the crash, State Police revised its pursuit policy to say troopers can initiate pursuits only if they believe the driver or occupants of the vehicle have committed a felony other than the crime of fleeing from police.

Two other troopers suspended

Records provided by State Police show Bessner was involved in 17 pursuits and five accidents in the four years prior to the Grimes incident, in addition to the 40 "use of force" incidents.

Use of force reports cover a range of contact between troopers and suspects, including things like wrestling someone to the ground or using pepper spray. Shaw said it's difficult to judge whether a particular number of reports is high because troopers' assignments can vary widely.

“There may be somebody that's assigned to a different task force that never has contact (with) the public," he said, while someone who is assigned to work in a high crime area may have more contact with the public.

Bessner's personnel records show he also earned accolades for his work.

He received a lifesaving award for administering naloxone in July 2016 to a woman who overdosed on heroin in her SUV. The drug revived her, saving her life.

State Police Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue wrote Bessner a letter about the award on Feb. 22, 2017.

“Please know that your service is appreciated,” she said. “Your deeds are one of the many reasons the Michigan State Police is held in such high esteem within our state and nation.”

Bessner’s partner at the scene of the heroin overdose was Trooper Jacob Liss.

By last August, on the day Bessner encountered Grimes, Liss had become a sergeant. He wrote in a report that he heard about the ATV chase over the radio and drove, lights flashing and sirens on, to the scene, finding out en route that Grimes had crashed.

Both Liss and Berger were placed on suspension with pay after the crash as authorities weighed possible criminal charges against them. Neither was charged, but their suspension continues because of internal investigations under way by State Police.

Bessner is free on bond but is required to wear a tether, officials said. His criminal trial is scheduled to start in July in Wayne County Circuit Court.

"We’re at the point now that the prosecutor has it, and it’s getting ready to go to trial," Shaw said. "So we will let the prosecutors speak at the trial and then let the system work, as we know that it will."

Contact Ann Zaniewski: 313-222-6594 or azaniewski@freepress.com.

Contact Elisha Anderson: 313-222-5144 or eanderson@freepress.com.

Contact John Wisely: 313-222-6825 or jwisely@freepress.com.



