BY ETHAN KASSEL

JH Tevis had done just about everything over the past two years. The junior had racked up 37 sacks on the football field and provided valuable minutes in the post for Menlo’s basketball team.

The only thing that was missing was a win over Half Moon Bay. The Cougars had beaten Menlo back in December after beating Menlo’s football team twice in the fall, including in a CCS championship game.

Tevis was able to check that off his list on Saturday night, as he drove baseline and scored with five seconds remaining in overtime to give Menlo a 42-40 overtime win in the CCS Division IV Championship at Santa Clara High.

Despite his 6-5, 241-pound frame and his defensive ability, Tevis was an unlikely hero for the Knights. He had scored just one point in the first 35 minutes of action, and had even committed a turnover less than two minutes prior when a pass slipped through his hands for a backcourt violation.

The overtime heroics capped off a wild two weeks for Tevis, who received a football scholarship offer from Cal on February 23. “It all comes down to the people I’m surrounded with,” said the two-sport athlete. “My teammates push me every day.”

The win snapped a four-game losing streak to Half Moon Bay on the hardwood for the Knights dating back to 2013. For Tevis and Hayden Pegley, who served as quarterback on Menlo’s football team, the win was extra sweet as HMB has won four straight meetings between the two teams on the gridiron.

“They’re a big rival,” said Tevis. “It’s always great to go against great programs. You live for that.”

For Half Moon Bay, the heartbreak is all too familiar. The Cougars suffered their third championship game defeat in the last six years, all to opponents from Atherton. Sacred Heart Prep topped the Coastside boys in 2012 and Menlo topped them in 2013. In the three years between the defeats to Menlo, WCAL opponents ousted Half Moon Bay in the first round of the Open Division. As was the case on Saturday, a lack of offense has killed the Cougars. HMB has been held to 45 points or fewer in all six of those games.

Half Moon Bay (21-8) tied the game at 40 with 25.7 seconds remaining in overtime on a pair of Sam Treanor free throws, the latter of which bounced off the back iron and high into the air before falling through the hoop. Treanor’s free throws were the Cougars’ only points in overtime. Menlo (19-7) had taken a 40-38 lead on Joe Foley’s drive to the hoop. Foley led all scorers with 16 points, including eight in the first quarter to buoy the Knights to an 11-8 lead.

Menlo led by nine in the second quarter, but Half Moon Bay cut the gap to 25-19 going into halftime thanks to a 3-pointer by Ryan Yerby.

The Knights stretched that lead to 30-21 in the third before the Cougars found their groove on offense. While Andrew Saffold led HMB with 13 points, the most important contributions may have been those of Miro Cavanagh. The backup center joined fellow big man Ethan Menzies in the starting lineup on Saturday, a stroke of genius from head coach Rich Forslund. Cavanagh scored the final four points of the third quarter to cut the lead to 32-29 and hit a rare 3-pointer to trim the lead to 34-32 early in the fourth. He finished with seven points and seven rebounds, while fellow big man Ethan Menzies had eight points and nine rebounds.

Saffold’s basket with 1:46 remaining in regulation gave Half Moon Bay a 38-37 lead, the first time the Cougars led since late in the first quarter.

Foley was fouled with 24.7 remaining and made one of two free throws. Saffold’s elbow jumper with six seconds remaining bounced off the rim, but Isiah Margate stripped Foley and was able to get off a 25-foot heave at the buzzer, which hit the rim but wouldn’t fall through, sending the game to overtime.

While championship game struggles have been a frequent occurrence for Half Moon Bay, so has success in the CIF State Tournament. Last year’s team reached the Northern California semifinals, and the Cougars have won six State Tournament games in the past five years. They’ve been the winningest public school program in the Bay Area during that span, but the trophy case will look a bit bare until they bring home a postseason trophy.