Buy Photo Kevin Doak speaks to students, athletes, faculty and alumni during a rally to save Eastern Michigan University sports on Monday, April 17, 2018, outside the EMU Convocation Center in Ypsilanti. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Nearly a decade ago, Eastern Michigan University swung for the fences. In a bold gamble, the university board approved a zero, zero, zero pricing plan that would hold tuition, room and board rates flat for the 2010-11 school year.

The hope, then-President Susan Martin explained, would be that students would flock to Eastern, driving tuition revenue and pulling the Ypsilanti school upwards.

It didn't work. By January of that year, Martin was already talking about the need to make cuts. The school had projected 3.4% growth in credit hour, and had only gotten 2%. Since then, Eastern has seen its credit hours plummet — down 15% through projections of this school year. And so Eastern is in an ongoing cycle of budget cuts, including hacking four sports teams for next year.

"It's both an expense and a revenue problem," said Eastern President James Smith. "Anytime you do any of these zero, zero, zero (initiatives) it's dangerous because you lose that multiplier in coming years. We are projecting 460,000 credit hours (next year). We can't go much lower than that."

The majority of Michigan's public universities — excluding the University of Michigan and Michigan State University, both big research universities — are caught in a tough spot. Dropping credit hour totals mean less money coming in. Less money coming in means less money to fund programs. Less money to fund programs means cuts.

More: Here's why you should give 529 college savings plans a second look

More: MSU's $500M payout could mean tuition hike, using taxpayer money

More: Eastern Michigan still plans to cut sports despite growing outrage

And while Eastern might be farther down the road than others, it's not alone in seeing the decline:

At Central Michigan University, student credit hours are down 12% from fall 2011 to fall 2017

At Ferris State University, credit hours are down 8% from fall 2011 to fall 2017.

At Western Michigan University, they are down 5.5% from fall 2013 to fall 2017.

At Northern Michigan University, they are down 13% from fall 2014 to fall 2017.

At Oakland University, credit hours are mostly flat, up .27% from 2012-13 to 2017-18.

The decline is tied partly to overall drops in population and birth rates in the state.

It comes as more and more reliance is being placed on tuition because state aid supplies a smaller percentage of a university's revenue.

"It continues to be a frustration," said Daniel Hurley, executive director of the Michigan Association of State Universities, noting that the state budget for the coming year includes only a small increase in funding. "It comes across as spinning our wheels."

The lack of state funding means so much of a university's budget is balanced on fickle tuition revenue.

How much a university makes in tuition relies both on how much a university charges per credit hour and how many credit hours students are taking.

Universities control the first part of the formula. By the end of July, Michigan's public universities will have set tuition rates. Administrators and boards will carefully try to walk a tightrope — they want to make enough money to cover costs, but they don't want to jack up tuition so high no students come.

And competition for students is fierce. The raw number of students graduating high school in Michigan has shrunk and will continue to dip, demographers say, because of a combination of decreasing population in Michigan and fewer births in the state.

In 2008, there were 123,600 high school grads, according to state data. In 2018, the number is projected to be 104,600. In 2028, 88,000.

"The impact across Michigan higher education from this decrease in high school graduates is staggering," Ferris President David Eisler said in written remarks for a February budget meeting. Ferris has cut millions from its budget over the past couple of years. "Last fall only three of the 15 Michigan public universities showed an enrollment increase and there were 10,590 fewer students this fall than in 2013.

"Our university is dependent upon tuition for 76% of the general fund budget. Declining enrollment, and the subsequent decrease in tuition revenue received, has a significant impact."

Eastern Michigan: A case study

In June 2015, Eastern's board and administrators faced a choice. They could stay under a cap on tuition increases — designed to keep college affordable — and get $1 million in performance-based state aid. Or they could hike tuition by 7.8% and get up to $10 million more, even with forfeiting the state aid.

They chose the hike.

"Our balance sheet is too thin," Martin said. "We never have enough money for what we need to do. We've tried to manage as best as we can, but this step was needed."

The university isn't alone. Wayne State and Oakland, also have gone over the cap once in the past several years in an effort to get more revenue.

Even after the tuition hike, Eastern's downward trend continued. Credit hours continued to slide, meaning less money than projected. At the same time, school officials also believed they needed to upgrade facilities to attract students.

So they started selling off operations to private companies.

In 2016, it sent its food operations to Chartwells on a 10-year contract that included a $5 million upfront payment. In February of this year, it approved a five-year extension that included $5.5 million up front.

In December 2017, it signed an agreement to turn its parking operations over to a private company, LAZ Parking. The 35-year agreement comes with $55 million up front.

In late 2016, the university signed an agreement with Academic Partnerships to let the private company market Eastern's online offerings. Academic Partnerships gets to keep 50% of the revenue from new students.

"We just don't have the capital in house" to make needed improvements around campus, Smith said. Those improvement include everything from classrooms to the RecIm building.

The need for the upfront payments further affected Eastern's budget.

James Smith, President, Eastern Michigan University (Photo: EMU Communications)

Eastern has averaged a more than $9 million budget deficit each year over the past seven years. That means round after round of budget cuts, including cutting softball, men’s swimming and diving, women’s tennis and wrestling in the past round to save more than $2 million.

Kevin Doak was an EMU swimmer in 1999-2003 and he has been one of the key organizers for campus protests over the cuts to the sports. He said supporters and organizers had proposed several solutions and were able to get pledges of about $300,000 to support swimming and wrestling soon after university officials told them the cuts were a financial issue.

“We’ve had countless ideas as to how to make the numbers work and they are not interested in hearing any of that,” Doak said. “… So they say it’s a money issue but they won’t take our money. They don’t even want to talk about any kind of funding, so that leads me to believe this is not about money. … This is about, in a sense, shedding dead weight in their mind. Just kind of sports they don’t especially care about.”

The university has said the cuts are final.

There have also been cuts on the academic side, including the elimination of positions. Programs are being carefully evaluated to see if they should still be offered.

"I worry about what's going to be left," said Rick English, 51, of Ypsilanti. "My daughter is a sophomore in high school. Her sister and brother went to school there (at EMU). They got a good education. But if they keep cutting, is there going to be anything left of the program? Will any good professors want to teach there? It's such a tough situation."

The cuts could turn around if Eastern could get more money flowing in.

It used to be that money would come from the state. But, Hurley says, state aid now makes up only 23% of the revenue for all the state's public universities.

That's despite the public wanting more state funding for universities, according to a recent poll commissioned by the Michigan Association of State Universities. The poll showed 37.7% think state funding is too little and 54.5% strongly support a "significant increase" in funding for state public universities.

Until that changes though, credit hours are the main revenue source, and places like Eastern would love to see more.

"We would be delighted with 525,000 credit hours," Smith said.

But there's a struggle with getting there — the number of in-state students Michigan universities are competing over is dropping.

Looking everywhere for students

For years, universities have had different tuition rates based on where a student lived. Live in Michigan and you got the lowest rate. Live in another state, pay a little bit more. Live in a different country and pay some more.

That's been changing in recent years. Universities have aggressively pushed recruiting efforts into neighboring states. Along with that, out-of-state tuition rates have been waived by some.

Earlier this month, Lake Superior State University took it a step further. It announced it would have a world-wide rate, with every one who takes 12 to 17 credit hours (a full-time load) paying $5,820 per semester for taking anywhere between 12 and 17 credit hours. International students will see a nearly 45% cost savings on tuition; without the world one rate tuition, international students would be expected to pay $727 per credit hour or $8,424 per semester for between 12 and 17 credits.

For years, Lake Superior State gave in-state tuition rates to students from Ontario, which is nearby. Then, a couple of years ago, it extended in-state tuition rates to anyone from North America.

Morrie Walworth, the school's vice president for finance, said out-of-state students is the only area where the university is seeing growth.

"It's the only growing revenue stream we've seen in the last few years," he said. That led to the world-wide rate. "We've had the same drop in tuition revenue that others have because of the lower and lower numbers" of eligible students.

It's not just Lake Superior State that is competing more for students.

"Even if we maintain or grow our market share, the diminished number of potential new students and the lower number of new students from previous years will likely result in an enrollment decline," Ferris State's Eisler said in his written remarks. "We do not talk about competition often in higher education but other institutions in Michigan face the same challenge and the competition for new students will be even more intense as the pool of students continues to decrease."

Parents and students also are seeing the competition for students increase.

"When my first daughter went to college eight years ago, she got materials sent to her from different schools, but not a ton of stuff," said Lisa Ray, 48, of Novi. That's changed now with her second daughter, currently finishing up her high school sophomore year. "It seems like every day there's something in the mail, or an email from an admissions person. I don't know if that will sway her decision or not. We're going to do some visits next fall and then she's going to pick, but I worry about the stability of some of the schools.

"What happens if she gets somewhere and it's all cuts all the time. I want her to go to some place that's growing, not shrinking."

Contact David Jesse: 313-222-8851 or djesse@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter: @reporterdavidj

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xBquCf