Mia Hart, center, and her 4 girls, from left, Moria, 16; Bridie, 12; Aileen, 9, and Kylie, 17 when they went wedding dress shopping at Elizabeth's Bridal Manor in Northville in February 2018. (Photo: Anna Milosevich)

There was giggling.

Lots of giggling.

Between the mom and her four girls.

There were some stories and some secrets, too.

Then, in a quick minute, each of the girls described, for a visitor to their Farmington Hills home, the best thing their mom, Mia Hart, ever did for them.

“Birth us!” 12-year-old Bridie said.

“I was just gonna say that!” Kylie, 17, shot back.

“Toughness,” Aileen, 9, spouted.

“Independence. Sense of humor,” Bridie added.

“Love for life,” Kylie said.

“Her toughness,” Moria, 16, added.

Toughness. Independence. Sense of humor. Love for life.

Life lessons every mother wants to teach their children.

For Hart and her girls, those lessons have come sooner than later.

They have to.

Because Hart is battling cancer — breast cancer that she says has spread throughout much of her petite body.

A couple of months ago, she said, her doctor predicted she had about six more months to live. But it's just a guess.

Hart isn’t taking her diagnosis lying down.

She can’t. She has too much to live for.

"I feel I have a lot more to do here with my children and my husband and my family," the 45-year-old said. "I don't want to miss anything. I don't want to take time for granted."

Hart said she is the first to try a new clinical trial at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. A successful clinical trial, she said, could give her years.

Read more:

Though there is that glimmer of hope, Hart can't help thinking about some of the things she may not get to experience with her four daughters. Things like weddings and grandchildren — and all the questions they'd have.

There was nothing she could do about the baby part, Hart said.

But the wedding part, often a very special mother-daughter time, was something different.

That was something she could do something about.

They could get bridal magazines and make scrapbooks with dresses and flowers and honeymoon spot ideas. Then, the idea morphed into something else she may miss seeing — her daughters in wedding gowns.

So Hart asked friends whether anyone had a connection with a bridal store that would allow them to try on dresses to take pictures for their scrapbooks.

That's how it started, a trip to a dress shop with her girls to take some pictures. But it turned into something much more than that, thanks to caring friends and the kindness of several complete strangers.

Random acts of kindness

When Stephanie Acho-Tartoni heard her longtime friend's request, she knew who to call.

"I saw there was a need and I wanted to help," said the Farmington Hills mother of three who has been friends with Hart for more than a decade. "And when I think of weddings and brides and shopping for dresses, you're not buying some dresses and some fabric, you're buying a memory."

"It’s just a moment that she will have with her forever. And that's that’s what I was trying to obtain for Mia," she said. "That moment, that excitement."

Acho-Tartoni knew Elizabeth Clancy, the owner of Elizabeth's Bridal Manor in Northville, would provide the Harts with that experience. That attention to detail.

So that's who she called.

Mia Hart looking at bridal gowns at Elizabeth's Bridal Manor in Northville in February 2018. (Photo: Anna Milosevich)

“How could you say no?” said Clancy, who says she, too, had breast cancer. “It felt good. We felt great about it. It took so little for us to do. A lifetime memory … for all of us.”

Clancy wanted the event at her decades-old shop to be private. So she blocked out part of a February afternoon.

That morning, Clancy said, she woke up not knowing what to expect.

She spotted a bottle of champagne in her refrigerator that she received as a Christmas gift and grabbed it. She pulled out antique champagne glasses and picked up Sprite for the girls.

“This is a very special occasion,” she recalled thinking. “How can I make this more special?”

Jim Ankofski, owner of The Pastry Palace in Wixom, was preparing his niece’s wedding cake that same week. The morning of the private event, Clancy called him with a request.

Clancy explained the situation and that she was looking for a cake for later that day.

Ankofski, who said his niece bought her dress from Clancy and who made Clancy’s wedding cake years ago, was happy to help.

“I was all in immediately,” he said. “I felt good about it. I felt really good about it.”

Ankofski made a three-tiered cake of different flavors with roses on the top. It was a small wedding cake, enough for 15 to 20 people, leaving the Harts extra to take home.

While the cake took little time to prepare, what it gave out meant so much more.

To him and a family he didn’t know.

“What you give out, you get back tenfold,” said Ankofski, whose shop has been in business for decades and on its website states that it has made cakes for former U.S. presidents. “It was just a small gesture on my part. … I think we all need more of that.”

Alicia Racine didn’t know Hart either, but she has known Clancy for a long time.

So when Clancy called her up with a floral request, she didn’t hesitate.

Racine, the owner of Adorn in Northville, provided a hand-tied bridal bouquet with red roses and white satin ribbon for the girls to hold.

“This thing seems so special,” Racine recalled of the event. “It seemed like a no-brainer to help."

'Nobody cried'

The event — the laughter, smiles and happiness — was captured by another of Hart's friends, photographer Anna Milosevich of Farmington Hills.

Milosevich photographed the older girls in beautiful gowns and veils and jewelry and Aileen in flower girls' dresses. She took photos of Hart — who liked seeing her daughters' different tastes and styles in dresses — donning a mother of the bride's dress.

“I thought I was gonna cry the whole time,” Milosevich said. “I was so nervous and wanted to get shots for her. This is so special for her and the girls. … I’m so happy she was able to do it with the girls. At least have that moment.”

Clancy knows how special that moment is.

“I see mothers with their daughters all the time.”

It's a moment she didn't have with her own mother. Clancy said her mother died when she was 19. Clancy got married when she was 34. She said it was the happiest day of her life, “but I cried when I was alone because my mother wasn’t there to see this happy occasion.”

She wanted to provide Hart something, that in a way, she didn’t get to have.

“She was glowing and we had a ball,” Clancy said. “It wasn’t sad and nobody cried. It was kind of quietly happy. The pictures of them holding hands and showing such strength and such solidarity, such dignity."

Milosevich sees that strength. All the time.

She said she and other moms at school are amazed at Hart, who is upbeat, making jokes and is "extremely strong." She said Hart drops off her kids and wants to spend every minute with them.

“She comes (to school or activities) and I’m amazed, and I’m like: ‘You just had chemo yesterday,’ ” said Milosevich, herself a mother of three children.

Acho-Tartoni agreed.

"She does not give up," she said of Hart. "Her enthusiasm is fuel for others. She really has a zest for life that is contagious and you don't want to see that flame go out."

"When you're on a time clock, you realize what's important," Acho-Tartoni added. "She is making her family, her children first and teaching them what she wants to leave them and that's the most valuable gift."

'The biggest heart I know'

Hart said her husband of almost 21 years, Liam, worked as an attorney, but is home since she has been ill and they are taking retirement. He helps her at home, divvying up chores, and travels with her in her quest for treatment and a clinical trial that works.

Though it was a sacrifice for him to put his career on hold, Hart said, the time together is a gift.

The couple lived in Grosse Pointe Woods with their first two girls. Hart said she was a French teacher at Grosse Pointe Academy in Grosse Pointe Farms many years ago until she became a stay-at-home mom. The family moved to Farmington Hills in the summer of 2005, to live closer to relatives.

Buy Photo Mia and Liam Hart in the kitchen at their home in Farmington Hills on Thursday, April 26, 2018. (Photo: Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press)

Hart, who sported short hair and leopard print ballerina flats on a recent day, sat close to her husband on the couch at their home.

She said he helps "so much with the kids." He modestly disagrees.

"It's not difficult. I would do anything for her and the girls," he said. "She's always been my best friend. She's my role model. She makes me. These four girls just adore Mia. It's obvious. She's just a great person and a great mother."

"She's the most selfless person I know, the biggest heart I know," he said.

Mia Hart called her husband "her rock" and said that his help gives her more time with her family ... "the luxury of time."

A shocking diagnosis

Liam Hart said the diagnosis was a shock and happened "to the healthiest person I ever met."

Mia Hart said it came well within a year of a clean mammogram. She said she felt a lump in the summer of 2015, but wasn't too concerned because she had just had a mammogram six months earlier.

She got an appointment when the girls were back in school, but by that time the cancer had grown and was in the ducts and lymph nodes. She said she was diagnosed with breast cancer, stage III, grade 3, estrogen positive.

She said she underwent rigorous and aggressive treatment, starting with chemotherapy. She had a double mastectomy, then five weeks of daily radiation. The process went from the fall of 2015 until July 2016.

She said it felt like a full-time job with all the scans and doctor appointments and blood work. After the radiation, she went on tamoxifen.

In April 2017, during a routine doctor's appointment, she mentioned she was out of breath. She thought it was because she was out of shape — she used to work out five times a week until she became ill — but the doctor immediately wanted a scan.

She said the cancer had metastasized and was in her lungs.

"It was probably growing the entire time I thought I was cancer-free," she said. "I thought I was done with treatment in July. Mine came back very quickly. Then, it's a whole new ballgame."

She started treatment again in April 2017, going back on chemo and trying some immunotherapy and another line of chemo. She got scans every three months, and the cancer kept growing.

"It has now spread to my liver and my bones and everywhere. It's increased in size in my chest wall. It's everywhere from my neck to my pelvis," she said.

Hart said she doesn't have full range of motion and has weakness and some neuropathy on her right side. She gets short of breath when she goes up a flight of steps with a laundry basket. So she and her husband do the laundry together.

She has limited amounts of energy daily and is often tired. If she did her normal chores, she said, that would expend all the energy she'd have and she'd be in bed when her girls come home from school. She'd be too tired to play cards or go to the movies.

So she's made choices: She rarely says no to spending time with her family — because that's how she chooses to use her energy.

She rests a couple of hours a day while the girls are at school. She doesn't do any activities with impact on her bones. She doesn't mind a house that isn't immaculate and perfectly decorated.

Hart said people have been full of love, offering food, rides, care packages, miles for flights, funny and warming thoughts on a private Facebook page and an occasional cleaning lady.

She's overwhelmed and sometimes has to turn people away; but the offers have given her a gift — the gift of time.

Time to rest and be with her family. To throw tennis balls to her youngest in third grade or to go prom dress shopping with her oldest, who is graduating high school and preparing for college.

Making memories

The physical limitations and changes — including going from long hair to a military-type buzz cut — Hart said she can handle.

The emotional challenges are harder. Like talking with your children about how much time you have — talks she had with each of her daughters individually a few months ago.

"It was the hardest thing I've ever done in my life," she said. "You're muddling through this emotionally. There is no guidebook, you know."

But the conversations sparked open dialogue that Hart said brought her and her daughters closer.

Buy Photo The Hart family at their home in Farmington Hills on Thursday, April 26, 2018. From left, Aileen, 9, Moria, 16, mother Mia, 45, Bridie, 12, Kylie, 17 and father Liam, 48. (Photo: Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press)

She wants to be a role model for them, teaching them how to be positive, how to fight and how to work through tough times. She said she's proud of herself and her family for its strength, optimism and keeping its sense of humor during the journey.

"You keep going. You keep enjoying life. You're good to your loved ones and your priority is how you treat people and spend time with them," Hart said.

She added: "no one here is wallowing. We are making the most of the time we have. We laugh a lot and that would be wasted time if we weren't. I can feel life in the moment all the time."

But, she said, it would be remiss if it was all smiles and positivity. There has been plenty of tears, fear, anger and grief shared with family and with friends. No one should feel shame or weak for difficult feelings, she said, as it is part of the journey and the process.

She said she gets through the darker days thanks to her support system. Her family and friends laugh with her on good days, and hug her on bad ones.

"You have to allow yourself to have bad feelings, too, to grieve and to be angry; otherwise, those emotions just fester inside. You have to accept the bad emotions, too. You've gotta accept them and move on and enjoy the good stretches."

Hart encourages women to get their yearly mammograms and to "always err on the side of caution and go in immediately" if they notice something amiss.

She said the simplest act of kindness — even just a card — can go a long way.

And most importantly, a lesson she thinks she has imparted to her daughters, is "not to take a minute of time for granted."

"All the little daily stuff isn't as important," Hart said. "Making memories should be part of everyone's to-do list."

Related:

Contact Christina Hall: chall@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @challreporter.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rFacTa