Opinion

Ft Collins, CO –-(Ammoland.com)- FS 308 Update:

I’m currently in the process of testing the first copy of the Farnam Signature 308 Operator Rifle in 7.62×51 caliber.

They are being built by Keith Everett at www.m4precision.com. Keith is also continuing to build the FSM4, in 5.56×45 caliber, as there are many Operators who still want a copy, or two.

This first iteration of the FS308 is built on the excellent POF Revolution Rifle. All internals are NP3-coated. Keith has, of course, subsequently performed his legendary battle-rifle gunsmithing magic.

The next version will be built on the Robinson Arms XCR/M. Others will follow, based on the PTR/91, DSA SA58, and SA M1A SOCOM.

The RA/XCR/M version will be built and ready for testing this fall.

The POF Revolution version is equipped with a Bushnell 1×8 SMRS, just introduced by Bushnell. In fact, I have one of the first copies! The Vortex 1×8 Strike Eagle is similar and also very acceptable.

Perfect for this rifle!

In addition, the rifle has LaRue offset BUIS, to which one can transition instantly.

A co-axial Powertac E9 flashlight (1020 lumens) is forward-mounted on the left side of the forend.

A BFG Two-Point Sling, and a “Sneaky Bag” low-profile transport case completes the package.

It comes to you test-fired and sighted-in at 40/200 (both optic and BUIS).

It is immediately ready for duty.

In any event, I’m using it now, and it is wonderful. I’ve been running it with both Magpul and Lancer 20-round magazines. Both run well. Both are very acceptable.

When you show up with this rifle, you’re king-of-the-hill, as you’ll have range and penetration capabilities unavailable to those using 223 rifles.

I’ll keep everyone updated.

/John

About John Farnam & Defense Training International, Inc

As a defensive weapons and tactics instructor John Farnam will urge you, based on your own beliefs, to make up your mind in advance as to what you would do when faced with an imminent lethal threat. You should, of course, also decide what preparations you should make in advance if any. Defense Training International wants to make sure that their students fully understand the physical, legal, psychological, and societal consequences of their actions or in-actions.

It is our duty to make you aware of certain unpleasant physical realities intrinsic to the Planet Earth. Mr. Farnam is happy to be your counselor and advisor. Visit: www.defense-training.com