A creative director for the fashion company that owns Stuart Weitzman and Coach says his boss repeatedly groped him and made lewd remarks including commenting on his penis size, according to a new sexual harassment lawsuit.

Thomas Gibb is the vice president of product development for the shoe brand Stuart Weitzman.

Beginning last year the company’s creative director Giovanni Morelli “subjected him to a constant barrage of sexual harassment,” according to Gibb’s Manhattan Supreme Court suit.

“For instance, but only by way of example, on March 7, 2018, Mr. Gibb took his first of several trips to Spain to work with Stuart Weitzman’s Design Team, including Mr. Morelli,” the suit says.

“Upon Mr. Morelli’s arrival in Spain the following day, he immediately began engaging in sexually harassing conduct in front of the entirety of the Spain ‘Shoes By Stuart’ office, including constantly touching Mr. Gibb’s body and the back of his legs and repeatedly asking him, ‘How is your d​–k?’ and ‘Is there any way you would ever consider not being straight?'” the suit says.

“Mr. Morelli’s touching of Mr. Gibb was unwelcomed, offensive and inappropriate and his comments made Mr. Gibb extremely uncomfortable,” according to court papers.

In another instance just this past March during a prototype fitting, Morelli asked Gibb for his European shoe size.

“When Mr. Gibb stated that he wore a size 45 shoe, Mr. Morelli responded, ‘Wow you must have a huge d​–k – probably 25 centimeters,'” the suit says.

“Mr. Morelli proceeded to say, ‘You are so straight though, it’s so sad,'” according to court papers.

“Around this time, Mr. Morelli also began to refer to Mr. Gibb as ‘Tommy Straight,’ a nickname that Mr. Morelli continued to use throughout the duration of his tenure at Tapestry,” the suit says.

Morelli was eventually allowed to resign after Gibb complained to HR and threatened legal action, but he’s still suing for unspecified damages.

A Tapestry spokeswoman said, “While we historically have not commented on pending litigation, we can confirm that the Wigdor firm, representing Mr. Gibb, wrote to our general counsel on May 15, 2018. On that date, the company commenced an investigation which ultimately resulted in the announcement on May 21, 2018, regarding the resignation of Giovanni Morelli.”

Morelli did not immediately return a call for comment.