Buy Photo FCA headquarters Auburn Hills, Michigan (Photo: Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

A former Fiat Chrysler employee pleaded guilty Friday to misleading a grand jury in 2015 about his knowledge of more than $1.5 million in prohibited gifts given to UAW officials out of company funds that were supposed to go to training workers.

Michael Brown, 60, who worked as Fiat Chrysler director for employee relations, accepted a plea deal in U.S. District Court in Detroit that could result in a maximum prison sentence of 18 months. He pleaded guilty to one count of "misprision" of a felony, which means that he not only failed to report a felony, but actively tried to conceal it.

He is the seventh person to be charged in the UAW-Fiat Chrysler training funds scandal that prosecutors say involved redirecting a total $4.5 million designated for training FCA workers to instead pay for lavish personal items, including expensive vacations, exotic sports cars, designer clothing and pricey $30,000-plus pens.

Read more:

Brown, wearing a grayish suit and a solemn expression, admitted to U.S. District Judge Paul Borman that he knew certain FCA executives had used credit cards and bank accounts of the UAW-Chrysler National Training Center to conceal the payments and opulent gifts for some UAW officers and staff.

Recipients of the payments and gifts included the late UAW Vice President General Holiefield and former UAW official Virdell King, among others.

Some of the more notable gifts included a $30,000 party in August 2014 with "ultra premium" liquor, more than 7,000 worth of cigars and the payment of Holiefield's $262,219 mortgage.

"I went about concealing that," Brown said.

Once co-director of the training center, Brown also admitted to authorizing hundreds of thousands of dollars in sham payments out of training center funds for salaries and benefits of UAW members who did little or no work for the training center.

Brown told the judge he also provided misleading and incomplete testimony on Dec. 16, 2015, before a federal grand jury in Detroit in an attempt to conceal the misspent funds.

He is scheduled for sentencing Sept. 20. Any restitution could be determined then.

The maximum sentence under the charge against Brown would ordinarily be three years.

Contact JC Reindl: 313-222-6631 or jcreindl@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @JCReindl.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xdXlfT