3:04 Federal judge is 95 years young and will school you in ice dancing Robert Sweet is not only a federal judge — he’s also an ice dancer. His wife, Adele, gave him a pair of ice skates 20 years ago, and he’s been hooked on the sport ever since. Documentary produced by Fanny Texier.

1:22 Procrastinators are adrenaline junkies Procrastination might actually be a good thing, says business expert Steve McClatchy. He claims the adrenaline that comes with waiting right up until the deadline gives slackers an extra boost of energy to do the task at hand.

3:41 Incredible mechanic fixes everything with his feet This inspirational mechanic does just about everything with his feet. Despite having no arms, Angel Marrero is able to change tires, swap out spark plugs, and even drive his own car. The father of one dreams of running his own auto body shop in Lowell, Massachusetts. “I don’t think about the pain. I like doing it,” he told The Post. “Cars are my thing.”

1:50 New Yorkers shame line-cutter back where he belongs The only thing worse than waiting in a long line is watching some jerk try to sneak their way past everyone and jump to the front. In New York City, there are lines everywhere. Unfortunately, there are just as many dopes trying to cheat the system. Luckily, New Yorkers are always ready to put these blockheads in their place (which is all the way in the back).

3:56 This masseur focuses on 'reproductive areas' Brooklyn-based spiritual masseur Luo Dong is known for giving free massages around New York. His unconventional practice focuses on women's and men’s nether regions, which he says hold special "yin" energy. Now Luo Dong is offering his clients “long distance” massages via webcam.

2:26 Women are getting designer nipples to look more like Kendall Jenner “My nipples never get hard,” complained one New Yorker, a 28-year-old hoping to walk away with breasts like Kendall Jenner. Lucky for her, designer nipples are popping up all over New York. Dr. Norman Rowe, a Park Avenue plastic surgeon, says many of his female patients want that “high beam or headlight look.” Procedures at Rowe’s office, which include Botox fillers injected into the areola, start at $700 and could last up to two years of perkiness.

3:03 These grannies are learning how to kick ass Avi Avramcheyiv, the owner of New York Self-Defense Academy , doesn't let age get in the way of self-defense. He's developed a senior self-defense class that teaches elderly people to use Krav Maga techniques to ward off attackers. The course focuses on moves that even people with physical disabilities can pull off, as opposed to the more advanced moves younger students learn. None of these students are likely to become the next ultimate champion, but they'll at least feel safer walking home at night.

3:00 Actors with Down syndrome star in off-Broadway hit Down syndrome won’t keep these actors from starring in an Off-Broadway play. Jamie Brewer and Eddie Barbanell play the lead character in “Amy and the Orphans,” a memoir about playwright Lindsey Ferrentino’s aunt. The production at Roundabout Theater in New York created a male version of the show, “Andy and the Orphans,” once they cast Brewer’s understudy.

1:19 Sick waiters and filthy menus are ground zero for the flu Restaurants might be the flu’s best friends. John, a waiter who’s been working in the service industry for 13 years, told The Post he’d have to be “hallucinating” to call out sick from work. Since tips are the bulk of waiters’ income, most restaurant workers can’t afford to take a day off. So the next time you pick up a menu, utensils or condiments, know that an under-the-weather waiter could have just put his grimy hands all over them. Produced by Katie Hyde