Share This Story Tweet Share Share Pin Email

This is the first of a three-part series on female employees of the Michigan Department of Corrections saying sexual harassment remains rampant in the prison system, despite a pledge by the state 30 years ago to stamp it out.

Corrections Officer Ashley Benedict had an exemplary work record at the Thumb Correctional Facility in Lapeer until a supervisor started sending her sexually explicit messages and propositions in 2009.

William Ruhlman, according to a federal lawsuit, repeatedly pestered her with salacious e-mails and text messages. He summoned her to his office, where he requested sexual favors. In 2011, he sent her a photo of his genitals.

More: Ex-prison officer said sexual harassment left her afraid for her life

The perimeter of Lapeer's Thumb Correctional Facility, where corrections officer Ashley Benedict worked. She alleges in a federal lawsuit she was first sexually harassed, then retaliated against.

(Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

A year later, Benedict was given a work assignment she didn't want, which she attributed to her repeated rejections of Ruhlman's advances. She says she complained to a lieutenant, who told her to keep quiet.

By early 2013, she'd had enough. "These e-mails and my lack of responding to them are negatively affecting me at work," Benedict wrote in a complaint to the department's Equal Employment Opportunity Office.

The Corrections Department does not deny some of the alleged conduct and the state has refused to provide Ruhlman with a taxpayer-funded attorney for the federal lawsuit. He insists the conduct was consensual.

"I sent her a picture of my genitals and she was supposed to, you know, reciprocate," Ruhlman testified in a 2016 deposition. "She did not send one back."

But it was Benedict the department fired in 2014 for not immediately reporting she was ticketed for driving on a suspended license. Ruhlman, who court records show has two convictions for drunken driving and served jail time for the second one, continued to collect a state paycheck for two more years, until May 2016. That's when the department says he resigned as part of a settlement, though it won't say why.

Benedict alleges in her suit she was first sexually harassed, then retaliated against for complaining about it.

It's a pattern current and former female prison employees say is played out repeatedly in the Michigan Department of Corrections, despite a department pledge three decades ago to stamp out what it acknowledged then was a huge problem.

A Free Press investigation found:

Corrections Department employees filed 186 sexual harassment complaints between 2015 and 2017, which resulted in discipline against 30 employees, the department said in response to a Freedom of Information Act request.

Harassers sometimes act with impunity in a mostly male environment with a work culture similar to the "blue wall of silence" associated with police departments.

Many women bold enough to complain say they were then retaliated against through investigations targeting them for supposed violations of selectively enforced rules. Even a woman whose supervisor was convicted of criminal sexual conduct for assaulting her inside a prison was fired by the department a year later, after she had difficulty returning to work.

The department does not bar supervisors from dating subordinates, as many human resources experts recommend, or even require them to report such relationships.

Harassers are often not reported by supervisors who become aware of their conduct, despite policies requiring them to do so. "Don't say anything more, or I will have to file a report," is a common response when women approach supervisors with complaints of harassment.

When harassers are disciplined they often face short suspensions or transfers to other facilities. "It's like the Catholic Church," with abusive priests moved from parish to parish, said Jonathan Marko, a Detroit attorney who has frequently sued the department.

The department — unlike other Michigan state agencies and many corrections departments in other states — refuses to release the names or discipline records of employees who have violated work rules against sexual harassment, making the scope of the problem and the department's response to it difficult to track. But some records become public through victims, court proceedings and civil service grievance hearings.

Sexual harassment has become a more prominent workplace issue in recent months, with large numbers of high-profile women in Hollywood and elsewhere going public with what they have endured. Inside the Corrections Department, where women represent about one-third of the 12,300 classified employees and one in six of the 6,000 corrections officers, it can be a matter of life and death.

Assaults 'a condition of employment'

In 1987, the Michigan Department of Corrections was rocked by the rape and murder of a rookie officer that exposed widespread sexual harassment of women officers by coworkers.

An inmate was convicted of murdering 28-year-old Josephine McCallum, a young mom who was still in her probationary period as a corrections officer. McCallum had complained about sexual propositions from a male supervisor before she was sent to work alone, in violation of regulations, in the area of the sprawling Jackson prison where her attacker found her.

No link between the sexual advances McCallum rebuffed and her last work assignment was ever proven. But an internal prison investigation into supervision of probationary employees — ordered in the wake of the murder — uncovered a rat's nest of problems.

"There were instances where female officers were told by male staff that they had to tolerate sexual assaults by prisoners as a condition of employment," then-Corrections Department Director Robert Brown Jr. said in a July 1987 memorandum to all employees.

More: Mid-Michigan prison locked down after three days of gang-related fighting

More: Appeals court: Inmate shortchanged at lunch can sue for retaliation

According to the report, female officers told investigators that male colleagues and supervisors both harassed them and would do nothing when prisoners grabbed them by the crotch or rear end, telling the women they had to be tough about such things.

"I'm not going to process a critical incident (report) every time a female officer gets her tits or ass grabbed," one unnamed high-ranking prison official was quoted as telling investigators.

Brown pledged to eradicate the problem through measures that included employee and supervisor training, streamlined reporting including an 800 number to report harassment,and the appointment of at least one sexual harassment counselor at each prison.

Those changes were implemented, at least on paper. But interviews with more than a dozen current and former employees and scrutiny of hundreds of pages of court and civil service records show the department's policy has been anything but zero tolerance. Sexual harassment remains a major problem three decades later, through groping and forced kissing, pestering for dates by supervisors with influence over scheduling and performance reviews, and texting of salacious messages and indecent photos.

The department now has 270 harassment counselors — regular employees who fill the added role on a voluntary basis — but said each receives only three hours of training.

Benedict, who believes she received transfers viewed as demotions in 2012 because of her refusal to "make out" with Ruhlman, went to a lieutenant to complain about the conduct and was told: "Don't tell me any more," because if you do, "I have to report it," according to the lawsuit.

She then received a three-day suspension for loudly complaining about another transfer, to the front gate. A series of discipline actions followed: a five-day suspension for failing to respond to a radio call and getting angry in 2013; an eight-day suspension for failing to immediately report a ticket for driving on a suspended license in 2013; a six-day suspension for yelling and using profanity in 2013, and her firing in 2014 for again failing to immediately report a suspended driver's license ticket.

In mostly rejecting the defendants' motions to dismiss Benedict's lawsuit, U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn ruled in September that "a reasonable juror could find that Ruhlman's conduct toward Benedict was so pervasive that it altered the conditions of her employment and created an abusive situation."

Cohn also ruled that "a reasonable juror could find a causal connection" between Benedict's complaints about sexual harassment and the department's disciplinary actions against her that followed, "up to and including termination."

Benedict declined comment. Her attorney, Amy DeRouin, did not respond to phone and e-mail messages.

The case continues, with a final pretrial conference set for May 1.

Harassment has a long history

Over the years, other prison sex harassment cases that have become public include:

In 2002, civil service Hearing Officer William Hutchens upheld a 30-day suspension, demotion to sergeant and transfer of Capt. George Harris from the St. Louis Correctional Facility in mid-Michigan. The hearing was told Harris repeatedly said, "I love you," to a female corrections officer, rubbed the shoulders of two female corrections officers, and told probationary female officers whose shoulders he had rubbed that they could lose their jobs.

In 1995, a civil service hearing officer upheld a 10-day suspension for Sgt. Steven Horn of Cotton Correctional Facility, saying the department was "lenient to the point of generosity" when it imposed the punishment. Evidence showed Horn told a female corrections officer, in reference to her, that he liked "nasty women" with big breasts to "grab a 12-pack of beer and crawl on top." His behavior over time included touching the officer's hair, poking her under her arm near her breast, untying her shoes, and asking whether her 16-year-old daughter could date older men. As the officer continued to resist his advances, Horn wrote her up for a bogus rules violation, Hutchens found.

In 2000, civil service Hearing Officer Ann Andrews upheld the department's demotion of Sgt. Marvin Baird for harassment after Baird pulled up alongside the vehicle of a probationary officer he worked with, told her to follow him to a gravel pit, and once there, asked her to engage in a sex act.

In 1997, civil service Hearing Officer Joyce Hensley upheld the dismissal of Capt. William Gannon for sexual harassment. A female corrections officer testified Gannon stuck her paycheck down the front of his pants and asked her to "come get it," had grabbed her head and pulled it toward his crotch, repeatedly called her a "hot, sexy tramp," and invited her to see the inside of his van and tour the country. The officer testified she felt trapped, afraid, intimidated and uncomfortable, but waited some time to complain because "she did not want to lose her job or ruin her chance for promotion." Other employees testified to witnessing some of the conduct, much of which Gannon admitted and described as joking. He said he felt singled out because of his union activities.

More recently, on April 3 of this year, the Michigan Court of Appeals gave the green light to a 2014 suit Marko brought on behalf of Shannon Woods, a parole/probation officer who complained she was repeatedly harassed by colleague Ryan Johnson, including rubbing her shoulders, kissing her on the top of her head, and texting her a photo of his genitals.

Parole officer Shannon Woods speaks in the Detroit offices of her attorney, Jonathan Marko. The Michigan Court of Appeals just gave a green light for her lawsuit to proceed.

(Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Johnson said he sent Woods the photo by mistake and told her not to open the file. He denies the other allegations.

But the Woods case may illustrate how much sexually harassing behavior the department will tolerate before it acts. Johnson's supervisor and other state employees, who, like Johnson, held positions with the state employees union, testified to Johnson's history of harassing and inappropriate behavior. Yet Marko said Johnson's personnel file shows he has never been disciplined for it, up to and including what happened with Woods.

In rejecting arguments from the department that Woods' suit should be dismissed, a three-judge panel noted evidence that supervisors knew for years of similar conduct by Johnson, who among other instances was earlier investigated for exposing himself to three other female employees.

"They moved this guy around and then he finally landed at Shannon Woods' job, and started sexually harassing her within the first week of being there," Marko said.

Known womanizers protected

Johnson's supervisor, David Katz, testified in a deposition he saw Johnson in Woods' cubicle, positioning himself on her desk with his crotch close to Woods' face as she leaned away, but had only made a mental note of it as "an issue (he) might have to address."

Katz testified Johnson was a known womanizer and problem employee who catcalled women at work but enjoyed certain protections because he knew people high up in the department. Katz, who didn't respond to an e-mail seeking comment, didn't specify who the higher-ups were.

Supervisors testified the department merely told Johnson to stay away from Woods after she complained verbally in 2012. After Woods filed a formal complaint in December 2013, the department's investigation cleared Johnson of wrongdoing, despite the fact the department doesn't deny the central allegations today.

In a court filing, Assistant Attorney General Jeanmarie Miller, representing the department, argued Johnson took his "off-work conduct a bit too far" by texting her the offensive photo. She argued Woods voluntarily exchanged social e-mails with Johnson away from work and "Woods is the one who brought it into the workplace by complaining about it to her employer." Prior to the offensive photo, "the only complaint Woods made with regard to Johnson was that he would occasionally sit too close to her in her work cubicle," Miller said.

Further, "the only piece of evidence presented in this matter regarding what was known to MDOC prior to Woods' complaint in December of 2013 was a 2000 incident where (Johnson) exposed his penis to coworkers," Miller said. "This single, 13-year-old incident hardly supports Woods' assertion that it was 'common knowledge' Johnson sexually harassed female co-workers ..."

Miller did not respond to an e-mailed question as to why someone exposing themselves to coworkers wouldn't be identified as a sexual harasser.

Marko argues that Woods' supervisor, Monica Swain, testified Woods was justifiably upset by Johnson's conduct and complained to her about it soon after Johnson began working in the Lawton office. Swain told Johnson's supervisor, but didn't file a report — as required under Corrections Department rules — or follow up to see whether Johnson's supervisor did.

Detroit attorney Jonathan Marko said the prison system's tendency to move those who harass from facility to facility is "like the Catholic church," with abusive priests moved from parish to parish.

(Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Swain didn't respond to an e-mail seeking comment.

After Woods filed her complaint, another woman in the same office gave a sworn statement that Johnson sent her the same offensive photo and late in 2012 told her at work he had dreamed about them engaging in a sex act, then invited her into a vacant office to enact the dream. He soon came to her desk to find out why she hadn't showed up, she wrote. "I ignored him and decided that going forward I would ... not acknowledge him whatsoever," she wrote.

Johnson told the Free Press on Wednesday there is no discipline in his personnel record because no complaint against him has been upheld. He said he and Woods were friends but had no sexual relationship and he sent her the offensive photo by mistake. He said Woods and the other woman in her office who alleged inappropriate behavior are lying, that he and Katz don't get along, that some stories are coming from union officials who didn't want him to run for president, and the 2000 incident involved a consensual game of "Truth or Dare" with female coworkers away from the job.

"I would never sexually harass someone at work," Johnson said.

Like Benedict, Woods alleges the department retaliated against her after she complained about harassment, suspending her for 15 days in 2015 over a parking lot altercation with a citizen. Three corrections employees with experience in employee discipline testified the punishment was excessive and Woods' supervisor testified that if it was up to her, no discipline would have been pursued.

An old boys club

Many longtime employees say the Corrections Department has historically been an "old boy's club," and rampant sex discrimination and harassment has its roots in members of that club fearing and acting out against encroachment by women.

The McCallum tragedy came amid a rapidly growing prison population, the packing of existing prisons and construction of new ones, and a Corrections Department hiring spree amid court-ordered affirmative action efforts intended to counter historic failures by hiring and promoting more women and minorities.

At the time of the murder, the number of female corrections officers had grown more than tenfold, to 1,323 from 123 in 1977, records show.

Many male officers resented the increasing presence of women, particularly when they, in some cases, received more rapid promotions.

And because many of Michigan's prisons are located in the Upper Peninsula or small Lower Peninsula towns such as Ionia or St. Louis where few good jobs are available, corrections officers, who can easily make more than $40,000 a year, can sometimes face the choice of tolerating harassment or getting paid less than half as much in a service industry job.

"Everybody knew everybody, and the people you would complain to were people who would go hang out with the people who were harassing you, or might even be related to them, " said Bonnie Barnes, who was among the first female corrections officers to work in a male prison when she started in 1980.

"If you would complain, you would get the worst job assignments," said Barnes, who said many female officers transferred to her shift for protection from sexual harassment before she retired as a captain in 2008.

Barnes said women had to walk a difficult line by trying to show harassers they would not tolerate such behavior, while at the same time trying not to violate a culture in which officers don't squeal on one another.

"I'm sure you've heard the adage that, women, if they're tough, they're a bitch, if they're a man and they're tough, they're a leader," she said. Female corrections officers "have to be strong enough, but if you do it by going to file charges, it's going to blow up in your face."

Brown, the former department director who retired in 1991, sought to tackle the problems through sexual harassment training and other measures.

He implemented changes, including an 800 number for reporting sexual harassment and designation of at least one sexual harassment counselor at each facility.

Brown also set a goal of increasing the proportion of women at each prison to 50%, but today women make up only 17% of the state's corrections officers. Department spokeswoman Holly Kramer said the department wants a diverse workforce but can't legally set quotas for hiring women.

Brown, 82, said Thursday he's not surprised sexual harassment remains a problem in the department. "It's part of the culture," he said. "Trying to stamp it out is a real problem."

Department Director Heidi Washington, who took office in 2015, said her department "has no tolerance for sexual harassment," and "I have been working hard to create an environment where staff can feel comfortable coming forward to report harassment and to make sure employees at all levels are held accountable for their actions."

Parole officer Shannon Woods: "The boys, they get to do whatever they want, say whatever they want and nothing happens to them." Women "pretty much don't have a voice."

(Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)

Washington said harassment prevention training has been "completely revamped," and the department's 14-year-old workplace harassment policy is being updated. Also, retaliation for reporting harassment is strictly prohibited and will be investigated if reported, she said.

"The department takes every complaint it receives seriously and I’d strongly encourage anyone who has experienced harassment to report it, so steps can be taken to investigate and address it," Washington said.

Woods sees things differently.

"The boys, they get to do whatever they want, say whatever they want and nothing happens to them," said Woods. Women "pretty much don't have a voice and we just have to live through it every day."

Women who cross the "old boys club" are vulnerable not just to selective rules enforcement, but the spreading of lies and rumors that can ruin their reputations and even endanger their lives.

Complaints could end career

Jennifer Metro, a prison counselor at Kinross Correctional Facility who testified in a separate harassment case, said in a 2014 deposition that accusing a female corrections officer of being "prisoner friendly" can be an effective way of harming a female officer's career and undermining her support among colleagues she counts on for backup.

Metro testified her brake lines were cut and untrue rumors were circulated about her at the former Straits Correctional Facility after she gave truthful evidence about a male officer who came close to sparking a riot by destroying prisoners' property and using the N-word in a facility where most of the inmates were black.

"Corrections is typically a boys club and there a lot of people with the mentality ... that females do not belong there," testified Metro, who transferred to Kinross as a result of the harassment.

"There are a lot of people that go through this form of harassment and they'll never come forward because they know that nothing will happen and they will be the one to get shafted one way or another."

Another officer who testified in the same case called into question the effectiveness of the sexual harassment counselor positions in each facility.

Corrections Officer John Pierce testified in a 2014 deposition that he'd served continuously as a prison sexual harassment counselor at Chippewa Correctional Facility and previously Straits Correctional Facility since 2003, but he felt "counselor is kind of a strange way of putting it 'cause we're not supposed to do anything except for record (complaints) and send along (to Lansing)."

He testified he'd never received any follow-up about any reports he sent to Lansing and didn't even keep copies of what he sent because he didn't want to have any records in his possession that could be subpoenaed in a court case.

Pierce, who received training for his voluntary post, said when someone approaches him to report sexual harassment, the first thing he does is caution them.

"Whenever people start talking to me, I stop them and say, 'If we go any farther, you have to — I have to fill things out,' " Pierce testified.

Contact Paul Egan: 517-372-8660 or pegan@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @paulegan4.

Sexual harassment policy

The Michigan Department of Corrections' discriminatory harassment policy dates from 2004. It reads, in part:

"All employees are prohibited from engaging in discriminatory harassment. In addition, supervisors and managers must make a good faith effort to eliminate and prevent discriminatory harassment from occurring. ... Whenever a supervisor or manager becomes aware of allegations of, or witnesses, such behavior by any employee under his/her supervision, s/he shall refer the person allegedly harassed to the appropriate harassment counselor and report the alleged harassment ..."

Reporting sexual harassment

To report sexual harassment in the Corrections Department, employees can:

Call the department's toll-free number, 800-326-4537.

Contact their workplace harassment counselor or the department's Equal Employment Opportunity Office

File a grievance, go to internal affairs, contact the civil service ombudsman, contact the federal EEOC office, or go to the courts.

Source: Michigan Department of Corrections.