As far as I remember, I first saw Rachel Rockwell perform in 1999. The show was director Marc Robin's production of "A Chorus Line" and the venue was the now-defunct Drury Lane in Evergreen Park; the site is now a Walmart. She played Cassie. There was, in her eyes, a real sadness.

For Rockwell, one of the Chicago theater's most exuberant and positive spirits, that was merely a very fine performance. Not that long after in Munster, Ind., she actually made "I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change" seem funny. But for many of Chicago's theatrical professionals, especially those who ply their trade in the musical houses of Aurora, Lincolnshire, Oakbrook Terrace and the city of Chicago, a real sadness rose up like a wave at the end of the Memorial Day holiday. Among her peers, Rockwell, who died Monday of complications from ovarian cancer, was beloved. In the theater, if the conditions are right, spontaneous families spring up during the rehearsal process. With Rockwell at the helm, that was always the case. And that meant she had a lot of family members who were in mourning.

It had not been easy for her to break into the tightly knit world of directors of musicals in Chicago; very few women were at the helm of those shows in the 1990s when Rockwell was working as a choreographer. In 2006, she finally landed a directing gig at the Marriott Lincolnshire, directing a daytime production of "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown," and a formidable career was underway.

Snootier directors often look down at family shows, preferring more sophisticated fare. But Rockwell not only grabbed those opportunities, she made a career out of entertaining all of Chicago's families. In 2007, I talked to her about her hourlong, daytime production of "The Wizard of Oz" at the Marriott Theatre. She said that all the supernatural effects (the melting witch, and so on) were "done in a way that will make kids feel they can try it themselves at home." I remember imagining all those Chicago-area kids with their buckets of water, getting into trouble.

The first show I saw directed by Rockwell was the obscure two-person musical "John & Jen" at the Apple Tree Theatre in Highland Park (Apple Tree is gone too). I didn't think it was much good; she had a long way to go.

But she traveled fast.

By 2009, she was in charge of the Drury Lane Oakbrook Terrace's massive production of "Miss Saigon," a spectacular piece of directing that brought to Oakbrook Terrace just as many emotional thrills as audiences had enjoyed on Broadway. It was a game-changer, not just for Rockwell, but for suburban musical theater in Chicagoland, an industry trying to extract itself from its roast beef and bare-legged roots and compete in a new market for live entertainment.

But Rockwell's legacy in the Chicago theater was not about helming colossal shows, although she did more than her fair share. It was about her ability to communicate truths with her own skin very much in the game.

Her greatest triumph was "Ragtime," a show with strong roots in Chicago. Rockwell directed the first local production at the Drury Lane in Oakbrook Terrace in 2010. I've seen this title many times; hers was my favorite interpretation. The staging was full of new ideas, not notions that fought with the material, but that enhanced its emotional center and its sense of optimism. It was as if she had unlocked the show for the first time, and connected it to the great Chicago theater aesthetic, which means ensemble, simplicity and truth.

Thereafter, Rockwell was in constant demand. Later in 2010, she was back with "A Chorus Line," not playing Cassie, but running the show.

Rockwell often cast actors in roles for which, under a different director, they would have been considered too old. That's not an example that needs any naming of names, but it's something that Rockwell did consistently across the years, and the result was a fleet of surprisingly rich, sad and delightful performances. At the same time, nobody but nobody coaxed better performances out of child actors. I've been looking at the photos of many of her shows — since we're leaving Tribune Tower, I'd actually been doing so in the days before I heard of Rockwell's death. Whether it was "Oliver" or "Billy Elliot" or her extraordinary take on "The Sound of Music," you always can read the thrill on the young actors' faces, the thrill that comes from knowing you are doing your best work for someone deeply invested in your success.

In 2011, Rockwell was in charge of a show called "Shout!" at the Marriott Theatre. In the cast was a future Broadway star named Jessie Mueller, who'd just been given her big break. But she was finishing up her last big show in Chicago. It was an extraordinary performance, almost as if Rockwell had provided a springboard with the most oomph anyone could muster.

Who could not fly after that?

Chris Jones is a Tribune critic.

cjones5@chicagotribune.com

Leading Chicago director Rachel Rockwell is dead at 49 »

Read more of Chris Jones' columns on the Theater Loop »