fiat

Starved of product, Fiat brand is at a crossroads May 26 Author: Andrea Malan When Fiat Chrysler presents its 2018-22 business plan on June 1, the biggest question mark will be the future of the Fiat brand, which has been losing share steadily in its two main markets — Europe and Brazil — and is disappearing in the U.S.



AutoNews Now: GM gives pickup wars a 4-cylinder shakeup May 18 GM gives pickup wars 4-cylinder shakeup; GT builder hires ousted Ford exec; Twist in FCA case; Nissan holding out?; 'The Closer': Shed with treads; exhausted chickens; sweet reward.



Marchionne plans big shift in FCA's vehicle assembly in Italy, report says May 18 FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne is planning a sweeping transformation of production in Italy that will see FCA abandon the manufacture of the Punto and MiTo small cars in favor of upscale models, Bloomberg reported.



Marchionne calls for cooling-off on U.S. trade rhetoric March 6 Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne called for a cooling-off over U.S. threats to impose tariffs on steel, aluminum and European car imports, warning the resulting "noise" was complicating talks on the future of NAFTA.



John Cena fights to dismiss Ford's lawsuit against him for flipping his 2017 GT supercar Feb. 15 Author: Michael Martinez Professional wrestler-turned-actor John Cena filed a motion to dismiss Ford's lawsuit against him for flipping his 2017 Liquid Blue GT supercar.



Kuniskis' job: Fan excitement for Alfa, Maserati Feb. 11 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Tim Kuniskis, the car-crazy U.S. sales guy handed control of FCA's celebrated Alfa Romeo and Maserati brands, knows something about creating excitement.



AutoNews Now: Leadership shakeup at Maserati, Alfa Feb. 5 Leadership shakeup at Maserati, Alfa; Nissan, Porsche EV moves; Conti, Nvidia partner on AV tech; Geely seeks Daimler shares; Bowl ads amuse, befuddle; Railing against wrong Ram.



FCA shifts Kuniskis to Alfa, Maserati; Bigland role reduced Feb. 5 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Fiat Chrysler Automobiles named Tim Kuniskis to be the new global head for Maserati and Alfa Romeo while trimming some responsibilities from the brands' multitasking former boss, U.S. sales chief Reid Bigland.



FCA: Fleet decline triggers 13% drop; Jeep gains 2.2% Feb. 1 Author: Larry P. Vellequette FCA US recorded a 17th consecutive month of declining sales in January, falling 13 percent to 132,803 vehicles.



Alfa Romeo losses shrinking, will miss profit target this year Jan. 26 Alfa Romeo will miss its target to make a profit this year, although its losses are shrinking, Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne told analysts.



FCA could be close to decision on 'baby' Jeep for global markets Jan. 24 Jeep is looking "very closely" at a possible vehicle smaller than its Renegade, the brand's boss Mike Manley said. A decision on the project could come in June.

