fiat chrysler

Fiat Chrysler investors want electric road map in Marchionne's swan song May 29 FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne is expected to outline plans for electric and hybrid cars in a strategy presentation Friday, aiming to ensure the carmaker remains in the race in the absence of a merger.



Expect big targets, little specifics from FCA 5-year plan May 28 Later this week, hundreds of stock analysts and journalists from across the globe will gather in Balocco, Italy, to hear retiring Fiat Chrysler Automobiles CEO Sergio Marchionne and his top lieutenants lay out the automaker's next five-year business plan — a plan that will be the first executed without Marchionne at the helm.



One-off Ferrari mashup May 28 Ferrari's SP38 one-off is a mashup of 308, F40 and 488 design cues.



FCA crackdown targets misuse of worker discounts May 28 Author: Larry P. Vellequette FCA US is altering its employee/retiree discount plan to curb the practice of selling or giving away vehicle discounts to people who are not immediate family members.



Starved of product, Fiat brand is at a crossroads May 26 Author: Andrea Malan When Fiat Chrysler presents its 2018-22 business plan on June 1, the biggest question mark will be the future of the Fiat brand, which has been losing share steadily in its two main markets — Europe and Brazil — and is disappearing in the U.S.



FCA recalls 4.8 million U.S. cars, light trucks to fix software flaw May 25 FCA is recalling nearly five million vehicles over a defect that could prevent drivers from deactivating cruise control and warned owners not to use the function until they receive software upgrades.



Fiat Chrysler launches U.S. media agency review May 22 Fiat Chrysler Automobiles said it is beginning a media agency review in the United States. The incumbent is Interpublic's UM.



At least 18 Jeep vehicles damaged in fire in Toledo May 21 Author: Anisa Jibrell A fire broke out in a parking lot near the Fiat Chrysler Automobiles' Toledo Assembly Complex this morning, damaging a number of Jeep vehicles.



AutoNews Now: Fire damages newly built Jeeps May 21 Fire damages newly built Jeeps; Trump signs bill overturning lending guidance; CR not recommending Tesla Model 3; Nissan's short-term pain; Solid future for Fisker?; Audi Q8 tease.



First Shift: New engine lets Silverado run on 2 cylinders May 18 New I-4 engine lets Silverado run on 2 cylinders; Report: FCA overhaul in Italy; Toyota EV to carry GAC badge in China; VW ads say 'Betta Getta Jetta'; M-B starts G class output.



AutoNews Now: GM gives pickup wars a 4-cylinder shakeup May 18 GM gives pickup wars 4-cylinder shakeup; GT builder hires ousted Ford exec; Twist in FCA case; Nissan holding out?; 'The Closer': Shed with treads; exhausted chickens; sweet reward.

