By StoryStudio

We save for college, retirement, and even home repairs. But as we age, we rarely put money away for major medical expenses, especially when those costs relate to long-term home care for diseases like Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia. The numbers can be staggering. For more than three years, Dave Morley, who lives in the South Bay, has paid $7,000 a month out-of-pocket. Fremont resident Jon Lucas estimates his out-of-pocket expenses to be as much as $350,000 since his wife was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease at just 56 years old.

Dave and Jon are just two of millions of spouses who have faced high financial costs associated with Alzheimer’s and dementia. Both husbands have traveled to Washington D.C. to meet with legislators, where they advocated for giving Alzheimer’s research funding top priority. Alzheimer’s is, after all, the most expensive disease in America, surpassing one-quarter of a trillion dollars for the second consecutive year.

Get Involved We need your help in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease.



An estimated 5.7 million Americans have Alzheimer’s dementia in 2018, including 650,000 in California.

Alzheimer’s affects every member of the family. Bay Area teenager Hillary Han was in high school when her father was diagnosed with the disease, thrusting her into an unfamiliar caregiver role. Charged with handling her family’s bills, Hillary was unprepared for the impending expenses associated with the disease. However, she is hardly alone. Out-of-pocket expenses in the nation totaled $60 billion dollars last year, more than 20% of the $277 billions of total caregiving expenses.

Hillary sought advice from the Alzheimer’s Association’s 24-hour helpline (800-272-3900). The association provides multiple suggestions to help caregivers plan their financial future. This advice begins with rethinking retirement planning when priorities have shifted. A financial planner or eldercare attorney can also help create an inventory of financial resources.





Caregivers should also investigate long-term care services early, determine what insurance plans are accepted and, most critically, find out whether these services accept Medicaid. Local Agency on Aging offices provide community service and support information, such as respite care and Meals on Wheels. Once they’ve assessed financial resources caregivers should make a plan for how to access care.

In California, deaths from Alzheimer’s disease have grown 241% since 2000

The cost of the disease continues to escalate, according to the Alzheimer’s Association’s Annual Facts and Figures Report. In addition to the $60 billion out-of-pocket expenses, Medicare ($140 billion) and Medicaid ($47 billion) make up the remainder of costs, in addition to $30 billion paid by private insurance, health management organizations, and other similar policies.

These exorbitant costs reflect the increasing prevalence of the disease in the United States and in California, where 650,000 people have Alzheimer’s or dementia. The annual number of new cases of Alzheimer’s and other dementias is projected to double by 2050 if treatment isn’t found.

At the same time, the burden on Alzheimer’s caregivers also continues to increase. In 2017, more than 16 million Americans provided 18.4 billion hours of unpaid care. The cost associated with this care totaled more than $23 billion. The annual Facts and Figures Report also noted that an additional $1 billion comes directly from complications in unpaid home care.

Alzheimer’s remains the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and it’s now the third leading cause of death in California. The disease is also the only one of the top 10 causes of death for which there is no prevention, cure, or method to slow its progression. This dire situation motivated Dave Morley and Jon Lucas, who’ve witnessed firsthand the disease’s consequences, to implore Washington legislators to provide more funding.

Alzheimer’s disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the U.S. and now is the 3rd leading cause of death in California.

Californians also have the opportunity to contribute to advancing research that will one day find a treatment for Alzheimer’s and other dementias. There are many ways to help. One example is participating in the annual Walk to End Alzheimer’s this fall. The walks are scheduled in cities and towns across Northern California and Northern Nevada. If you’d like to support families living with Alzheimer’s, and advance research to stop this terrible disease, contact your local Alzheimer’s Association office by calling 800-272-3900 or go to alz.org/norcal.