By StoryStudio

We live in the San Francisco Bay Area, folks. This means: A) we get to work, live, and play in one of the greatest places in the world, and: B) we have to pay for it. Rent isn’t cheap, and neither are your bills.

Of course, not all income sources are created equal. Some have very long hours or include physical wear and tear, and others just don’t pay enough to make it worthwhile.

Your next job should teach you a thing or two that might be helpful down the line for your career. Luckily, Verizon is hiring retail sales reps and offers just this: a competitive income, sweet benefits, some seriously valuable on-the-job training.

Want to know more? Read on.

1. The chance to make an impact. Sure, you can sell just about anything, but working at Verizon means directly contributing to the way the world works, lives, and communicates. And that’s a powerful thing. Employees at Verizon feel valued, inspired, and empowered—because the work they’re doing has such a strong and direct impact on every customer who walks through the door. And when you’re working for the company with the nation’s best wireless network, you can be sure that your impact will be a positive one.

2. Great pay, great benefits. Over the years, Verizon has developed a reputation for excellence that extends far beyond its award-winning network. Employees can expect highly competitive salaries and great benefits that start when you walk in the door. These include best-in-class healthcare and wellness plans, financial and retirement planning, and tuition assistance – all designed to help your continuing education and professional development. And did we mention the employee discounts?







3. New skills galore. Verizon invests hundreds of millions in training and development, which means it backs up this commitment to the betterment of its employees. Verizon offers the opportunity to learn and grow, and teaches its salespeople valuable skills.

4. Cool coworkers. Have you ever noticed that every time you leave a Verizon store, you feel like you just made a new friend? That’s because Verizon puts a premium on hiring the best, and attracts some of the most talented, driven, and friendliest individuals in the game. The company is committed to diversity and excellence, meaning you’re likely to love the people you work with.

5. Never a dull moment. Working in retail can be a challenge…if nobody wants the product you’re selling. Verizon has never had that problem since it has the nation’s largest and most reliable network. Days are fast-paced, challenging, and chock full of interaction. So, this isn’t the kind of job that’ll have you watching the clock—it’s the kind where your day will go by in a flash.

What are you waiting for? Jobs are available now all over the Bay Area. Apply today.