London, July 11th, 2016 - Flight Airline Business has been named best international publication at the Aerospace Media Awards, held in London on 10 July. The accolade makes it two in a row for FlightGlobal: last year Flight International took the top prize. This time, Flight Airline Business pipped its stablemate, along with other magazines including Aviation Week & Space Technology and Aviation International News.

FlightGlobal executive director content and former Flight Airline Business editor Max Kingsley-Jones describes the award as “a great honour”. He adds: “We’ve just marked our 30th anniversary and this is a wonderful endorsement from the judges.”

BillyPix

Flight Daily News editor Murdo Morrison picked up a highly commended prize in the best in-depth feature category for a Flight International Canada country special. In total, FlightGlobal products and journalists received 11 nominations with Stephen Trimble, Dominic Perry, Greg Waldron and Flight Dashboard all shortlisted in at least one category.

Former Flight International editor Mike Ramsden - who ran the weekly from 1964 to 1989 - was one of three aviation publishing veterans to be recognised with a lifetime achievement award.

To find out more visit www.flightglobal.com

Contact: Andrew Ainsworth - Marketing Executive

andrew.ainsworth@flightglobal.com

FlightGlobal

FlightGlobal provides today’s airlines, airports, financial and insurance entities, aircraft owners, financiers and manufacturers with a comprehensive suite of data, news and insights that supports them in understanding the global fleet, identifying new opportunities with key players and provides a connected view of the aviation industry. Today’s aviation professionals rely on FlightGlobal to identify the key influences that will lead to potential opportunities for their business. Clients have access to millions of pieces of data to ensure their teams are equipped with the most up-to-date understanding of the global fleet, who’s flying them and where. Our consultants round out the platform of offerings with expert insight into valuations and risk assessment, and carry out tailored market assessments and analysis.

FlightGlobal operates with a global team of over 270 analysts, appraisers, data specialists, journalists and consultants that bring decades of experience in aviation finance, transport news and data in the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific regions. The organisation resides within Reed Business Information, a division of the world leading information solutions group, RELX Group. A strategic partner of IATA, the trade association of airlines, FlightGlobal has been recognised as the Aircraft Appraiser of the Year, an Aviation 100 Award, five times in the last six years.