Buy Photo School supplies in a kindergarten class. (Photo: Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Seems like everybody in America is talking about the nation’s growing racial conflict and what it has wrought — fear over hate crimes, outrage over cop killings, anger over reporting black people to the police for breathing while black.

Seems like everybody is talking publicly about it except metro Detroit business leaders, many of whom will gather on Michigan’s Mackinac Island this week to discuss the region’s most pressing problems.

Our business community, for the most part, believes those problems lie with transit, training and trade. They plan to spend almost three whole days focused on three themes: preparing Michigan’s workers for a new generation, creating mobility for the future rather than the past and restoring trust in government, media and business.

But they always start the conversation in the wrong place.

More at Freep.com:

Our region’s most pressing problem isn’t that we have a talent shortage, or that we aren’t competitive. Our most pressing problem is that we don’t care enough about education — and haven’t for more than a half century — nor do we realize that our talent problem begins in third grade.

What does that have to do with race? This: We have believed that if our suburban schools are adequate, we don't really have to care about urban or rural schools.

Unfortunately, that means that black students — and some rural ones — attend inferior schools and too many of those students grow up to be prison inmates or a part of Michigan’s poor.

Tonya Allen, CEO of the Skillman Foundation, which has spent million on city schools, said she was just penning a message to current gubernatorial candidates to tell them they cannot run from the race issue.

"My message to them is: If you're going to take on education, you have to take on racism because there is no reforming a system that fundamentally was designed to deliver poor outcomes for kids of color," she said.

"The challenge is we have racism and inequities built into our system so when we talk about reform, and we don't deal with structural inequities, we're essentially putting a Band-Aid on problems and not serving kids with the greatest needs. And that's particularly true in education."

Nothing is clearer and more galling than Detroit's school district, whose students have placed near the bottom — or at the bottom — of national testing for years.

Don’t blame Mayor Mike Duggan. He’s not (former New York Mayor) Michael Bloomberg and doesn’t have a magic checkbook allowing him to match Dan Gilbert’s building-buying spree dollar for dollar. So, he can’t just fix the schools.

But Duggan does need to require more of CEOs and the massive influx of developers racing to Detroit like Sutter’s Mill (Google it.). He should consider making them further invest in Detroit's renaissance. That means investing in its schools.

What if, for instance, Duggan required developers to adopt a school in order to receive tax breaks? It’s a novel idea, but it’s possible. If you want tax breaks, you have to adopt a school, providing its students and teachers with what they need to succeed.

It's past time.

Detroit has issues. And it appears to finally be ready to face up to them. But it took outsiders to make us pay attention.

This year’s policy conference, which could be one of the most important, though underutilized, opportunities to foster education innovation, comes just months after Amazon rejected metro Detroit’s bid for its second headquarters. And it wasn’t just because we embarrassingly lack regional transit, although that was a deficit.

It wasn’t because we don’t have the space. There’s enough green space in Detroit to build five Disneylands.

No, it was because of our education deficit, frequently described as a talent deficit.

Only a third of metro Detroit's younger adults have a bachelor’s degree or higher, according to news reports. Only Miami, among big cities, has fewer.

Members of Detroit’s business community seemed surprised that nine out of 10 Detroit third-graders do not read at grade level. But third-graders in the city haven’t read at grade level for more than a decade, and the district's dropout rate has been in double digits for more than three decades.

What did our CEOs think became of all those former third-graders and dropouts? They grow up to contribute to a poverty rate in double digits.

Our talent deficit isn’t the result of CEOs being demonstrably racist. But it is the result of race. We have not cared.

If metro Detroit and its chamber and business and political leaders really want change, they would not, they could not, read a front-page headline that says Detroit’s school children scored dead last in the nation on a standardized test, and just grab another cup of coffee.

Our talent deficit, which means our education deficit, would be job No. 1.

The week before the Detroit Public Schools Community District hired Dr. Nikolai Vitti as superintendent, I wrote an open letter telling him that wasn’t the job he was being hired to do. I told him his job was to become part of a team guiding Detroit’s renaissance. Here’s what he faced:

Ninety percent of the district’s third-graders read below grade level at a time when the Legislature has banned promoting them if that remains true.

More than 70% of children seen by Community Mental Health officials in Wayne County have experienced at least three potentially traumatic events that could change how they think and learn. Many of those children are in Detroit.

Every day, 14 children in the city became victims of crime. In 2014, the last year the study was done, about 43% were victims of homicide, sexual assault, aggravated assault or robbery.

Many of Detroit's children suffer from toxic stress related to the environments in which they live.

Many of Detroit's children have parents who are either undereducated or have difficulty reading. Parents who cannot read cannot teach their children or be partners in their education. Demanding that they do, without providing a way to do it, is folly.

Many of Detroit’s children are victims of adult misbehavior. Because the district was long plagued by mismanagement and corruption, it has become harder to persuade supporters to donate to the children. The district and its new superintendent must find a way to make businesses focus on the children, not the past.

The city schools began the year short 300 teachers. And as more teachers retire each year — and fewer head into urban school districts — the problem could get worse.

That is what Detroit faces, which means this is what metro Detroit’s business community faces. That is what Detroit must fix, before the next Amazon comes calling, before our education deficit begins to impact the renaissance. I’ll be hosting a session at Mackinac Thursday afternoon with Mayor Duggan, Dr. Vitti and others to discuss just these issues.

Detroit's business community needs to focus on those young black faces that have been ignored for so long.

And there’s no better place to discuss it than on Mackinac Island, where there is little escape and ample opportunity — whether race is on the agenda or not.

Contact Rochelle Riley: rriley99@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @rochelleriley. Find information about her book "The Burden: African Americans and the Enduring Impact of Slavery" at www.rochelleriley.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2snM4UG