The view of downtown Detroit. (Photo: Romain Blanquart, Romain Blanquart, Romain Blanqua)

As the youngest Detroit City Council President-Pro Tem ever to serve, I’m proud to boast of a downtown bustling with new investment, new buildings and new people. A place where millennials earning $100,000 flock to the new jobs in newly renovated buildings, then to all of the new restaurants, bars and pubs, to spend their disposable income. It paints an amazing picture of vibrancy.

However, going unnoticed, and unnamed in those same new buildings, are the janitors and security officers who clean up behind – and protect – Detroit’s “resurgence.” They are Detroiters who catch buses into downtown to work. They walk past the same restaurants, bars and pubs that they can’t afford; arriving from the same neighborhoods they’ve lived in during Detroit’s greatest struggles; doing their best to raise their families amid the ever-rising cost of living – on less than $15 an hour. They are proud and hardworking people. They are our people.

Mary Sheffield (Photo: Mary Sheffield)

Detroit’s upward trend has been fueled by public-private partnerships. Private investors have helped transform downtown. Public monies have provided tax abatements, gap funding and other subsidies to help pave the way. All made possible by approval from leaders elected by the residents of this city; residents who still lead the nation in poverty, as well as un- and under-employment by a wide margin.

Kaffer to New Detroiters: Don't use that suburban address to dodge city taxes

More: Detroit contractor faces suspension after demolishing wrong house

Gallagher: Do tax incentives boost Detroit projects? Skeptics question their use.

We all recite these statistics easily. We know the national poverty rate is 14%, yet 36% in Detroit, the highest among the 20 largest cities in America. And we know that Detroit’s unemployment consistently doubles the national average. Janitors and security officers working downtown earn between $9.25 and $11 an hour on average. They work long, back-breaking weeks – often putting their personal safety at risk –­ yet their earnings still make them eligible for food stamps and housing assistance.

What type of public-private partnership and leadership do we have in Detroit if we continue to recite these dubious statistics, yet continue to ignore that real people are attached to them?

In the last five years alone, both the City Council and the Wayne County Commission have approved more than $1 billion in tax incentives in and around our downtown District. We’ve done so in the best interest of Detroit. I have great respect for each developer’s business model. However, I believe in the spirit of true partnership, our business leadership should be willing to provide a return on the government’s investment into these projects through an investment into Detroit’s hardest-hit and hardest-working residents. They could do that by paying janitors and security officers at least $15 per hour, granting them the dignity and ability to better support their families.

Milwaukee, a city also among the nation’s leader in poverty, offers a great blueprint for large-scale development that combines economic growth and community investment. The Milwaukee Bucks’ new arena will employ nearly 1,000 workers, half of them living in zip codes with high poverty and high unemployment. The jobs covered under the arena’s agreement are low-wage, service sector jobs, and the wage floor for them will be $12.50 an hour, going up to $15 an hour by 2023.

We can do better in Detroit.

A strong business case can be made for doing well and doing good. Low wages equate to higher turnover, increased absenteeism, and increased staffing costs.

The concept of a “New Detroit” or “Two Detroits” is usually dismissed as divisive rhetoric by the beneficiaries of our economic resurgence. However, I represent the district in Detroit that is the epicenter of the city’s greatest economic strength, and some of its greatest poverty. It’s time that we, as Detroit’s public and private leadership, ensure that all Detroiters can embrace and benefit from One Detroit – One Detroit where the rising tide lifts all boats.

Mary Sheffield represents Detroit's 5th Council District and is president pro-tem of Detroit City Council.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rV4eNi