ford

Ford set up JLR for success before 2008 sale May 28 Author: Richard Truett Like nearly all automotive success stories, Jaguar Land Rover's resurgence is rooted in engineering and design, but its previous owner, Ford, also deserves some credit.



BMW, Toyota, Ford at odds with S. Africa over production boost plan May 22 BMW, Toyota and Ford are at odds with South Africa over its plans for them to more than double output and double their work forces in return for tax breaks.



Losing sedans is not a good move May 21 As a Ford shareholder who counts three four-doors in his household fleet, I regard Dearborn's decision to discontinue nonluxury sedans as its dumbest since the Edsel, or at least since last year's firing of Mark Fields.



Small cars? Ford just isn't interested May 21 The commentaries by Michael Martinez and Richard Truett made several good points about why Ford is discontinuing its car lines. They forgot one thing: Ford doesn't want to be bothered.



OVERNIGHT SUCCESS May 21 Fifty years ago, Ford was amid a glorious run of victories at Le Mans with its GT40. Before the first victory, Henry Ford II sat for an interview with Sports Illustrated .



We should know how this turns out May 21 I was surprised to read of Ford's plan to mostly phase out cars. Haven't we seen this movie before?



Ford makes coming back to work easier May 20 Author: Michael Martinez Ford last fall launched the Career Re-Entry Program, which offers six-month assignments in product development, information technology and manufacturing jobs. It's available to workers who have been without a job for at least two years because of family developments, military deployments, moves or other life changes.



INSIDE THE OVAL May 19 Author: Michael Martinez Early in his engineering career at Ford, product development and purchasing boss Hau Thai-Tang was embedded with Newman/Haas Racing for the 1993 IndyCar season. Here's what he learned.



Ex-Ford exec Nair named president of Canadian racing firm May 18 Author: Michael Martinez Raj Nair, ousted in February by Ford for unspecified "inappropriate behavior," has been hired by Multimatic, which builds the GT supercar Ford developed under his leadership.



AutoNews Now: How 87,000-lb. airlift helped rescue F-150 output May 17 How 87,000-lb. airlift helped rescue F-150 output; M-B to restart Ala. Plant; Analyst: Tesla will need $10B; Mobileye lands AV supply deal; Britain legalizes robo-parking.

