We've all been there. You're walking onto the beach, carrying bags, towels, lunches, extra swimsuits, and more. You go through beach badge check and once you are all settled, you realize -- the sunscreen is still in the car.

In Avalon, it's no longer an issue.

The borough announced Wednesday a partnership with the Richard David Kann (RDK) Melanoma Foundation to provide two sunscreen application dispensers that will dole out free sunscreen to any beachgoers wary of the damaging effects of the sun's ultraviolet light.

With dispensers installed at the Avalon Beach Tag Booth at 30th Street and at the 39th Street Playground, officials say the machines are intended not only to supply free sunscreen, but also to remind citizens about sun safety and the importance of early detection of melanoma.

"These dispensers will be very useful in public education and conversations about how to better protect the public from the potential harmful and damaging effects to prolonged exposure to the sun," Avalon Mayor Martin Pagliughi said in a statement about the new pumps.

According to town officials, a borough resident suggested the partnership after hearing Philadelphia Phillies' Hall of Fame third baseman Mike Schmidt speak about how skin cancer has affected his own life. Schmidt has worked with the RDK Melanoma Foundation since January 2016 to raise awareness about the importance of sun safety education.

The RDK Melanoma Foundation has established sunscreen dispensers throughout Philadelphia and in Palm Beach County, Florida. The dispensers in Avalon are the first partnership the foundation has made in New Jersey.

"Our hope is that the dispensers engage conversation and serve as another reminder to protect oneself, as well as providing sunscreen to our residents and visitors," said Scott Wahl, business administrator of Avalon.

Avalon ordered sport SPF 30 sunscreen for its dispensers, which will be maintained by the Avalon Department of Recreation and checked multiple times per week in order to be refilled when necessary.

Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States, and most cases are melanoma, which is the deadliest form of skin cancer. Melanoma is caused by exposure to ultraviolet light, such as from the sun or tanning beds.

"We'll see how it goes, what the interest is, and if it takes off like we think it will, the borough will add more dispensers in additional locations," said Wahl.

Delaney Dryfoos may be reached at ddryfoos@njadvancemedia.com. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips