Zack Stoner, founder of a popular YouTube channel featuring young Chicago musical talent, was taking in a show at a South Loop club where he posted an Instagram video of one of the acts early Wednesday.

Half an hour later, he lay dying three blocks away, shot in the head by someone in a passing car.

"I don’t know why anyone would attack Zack and shoot him. He’s not that type," said a friend, Phor Robinson. "He shows love to everybody in Chicago.”

Police say Stoner, 30, was shot around 1:30 a.m. in the 700 block of South Clark Street. He had been driving down Clark when someone in another car fired at him, hitting him in the head and neck. He was pronounced dead at 4:20 a.m. at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.

A video taken by a resident from an apartment above the scene captured the moments after the shooting: Two crashed cars stopped on the street and a third car nearby with the engine running.

“Let’s go,” a man yells as three people run from one of the crashed cars to the third car, which drives away. A taxi passes the fleeing car before backing up and stopping at the scene.

Inside a nearby bar, Danny Friedman saw the three cars converge on Clark, which was otherwise empty. People exited the cars and looked like they may fight.

Uneasy, the bar manager said he turned back to tend to the five or six regulars still in the bar when he heard gunshots. Friedman ran to the door and deadbolted it as the bar’s patrons dropped to the ground.

He saw a man walking by holding a handgun. “It was just adrenaline,” Friedman said.

Around the corner, Travis Finley was working in a Subway shop when a woman rushed in and said she had just heard gunshots. Finley didn't believe her. Then he heard them.

The 21-year-old South Side native who studies animation at Columbia College told the woman to stay inside the shop while he went outside to take a look.

He saw a man run by with blood on his shirt. He heard a woman scream, “No, no, no.”

Police reported no one in custody Wednesday afternoon.

Video taken by Aaron Dunlap captured the aftermath of a fatal shooting in the South Loop May 30, 2018. Video taken by Aaron Dunlap captured the aftermath of a fatal shooting in the South Loop May 30, 2018. SEE MORE VIDEOS

Stoner was known for interviewing young Chicago rappers and posting them on his YouTube channel, zacktv1, which lists 176,146 subscribers. The channel hosts hundreds of videos featuring music and interviews.

On his Twitter account, Stoner described himself as "the Best Interviewer in the world. I've been to some of the most dangerous hoods in America with faith in God and a Camera."

According to friends, Stoner had just left a rap concert at Refuge Live at 416 S. Clark St. when he was shot.

"I don’t know if they was personally shooting at him, or if it was somebody he was with," his friend Robinson said. "I don’t know what it was. All I know is my friend is gone.”