Southampton

Michelle Farmer Collaborate, the Palm Beach brand of colorful resortwear and beachy accessories, has set up shop at 10A Jobs Lane. Finesse your look with a silk slip dress or patterned linen shorts. Or swing by Shari’s Place at 29 Main St., and drool over the tempting array of designer brands and the softest leather and suede pieces.

Shoe-industry favorite Sam Edelman is opening a pop-up at 38 Jobs Lane. Find his affordable footwear (including kids’ styles), flirty fashion and colorful handbags. The guys, meanwhile, will want to try on the pared-down and relaxed aesthetic of Eleventy, an Italian brand opening this summer at 53 Jobs Lane.

French beauty brand L’Core Paris is landing at 9 Main St. Pamper yourself with anti-aging and radiance-enhancing products – formulated with organic botanicals and powdered 24-k gold and gemstones – or a soothing spa treatment. You can also dial back the hands of time at Epidermis Salon, located at 43 Jobs Lane. On the spa menu: diamond facials, anti-aging treatments and electrolysis. While you’re there, stock up on Zero Gravity, Lavelier and Mica Beauty goodies.

For those on the hunt for hostess presents, the Hamptons’ oldest florist, Topiaire Flower Shop, just got a chic makeover and doubled in size. Customers at 51 Jobs Lane can stop and smell the roses while sipping complimentary coffee in a new outdoor seating area.

And a number of Southampton retailers have busted a move. Alice + Olivia has decamped from Jobs Lane to 68 Main St. Henry Lehr relocated to 72 Main St. and now offers clothing for men as well as women, while Ruby and Jenna has taken over the former Calypso store at 24 Jobs Lane.

Sag Harbor

Is that fresh coconut or Coqui Coqui’s “Rosas Frescas” scent? At Havens, Kim-Van Dang’s new beauty and fashion emporium at 8 Main St., it’s bound to be the cult eau de parfum from Tulum, Mexico. Load up on other fragrant wares, from French fave Briard to Turkey’s Nishane. No nasties, meanwhile, is the policy at Onda Beauty, a nontoxic beauty boutique at 42 Main St. The brainchild of Larissa Thomson and Sarah Bryden-Brown stocks “clean” labels like African Botanics, Odacite and Saya.

Attention, foodie fashionistas: Designer Donna Karan is moving her Urban Zen line into the same building as her girl Gabby Karan de Felice’s famed restaurant, Tutto Il Giorno (which has another location in Southampton). Score an amulet belt bag and a killer burrata, all at 16 Main St.

You can outfit the entire family in Faherty’s casual, surf-inspired togs made of sustainable fabrics. Twin brothers Alex and Mike Faherty are behind the sun-washed tees, swimsuits and more at 56 Main St.

Former Cosmo fashion editor Rebecca Hessel Cohen, meanwhile, curates the eclectic mix of decor, books, beauty, flowers and signature ready-to-wear at LoveShackFancy, tucked in a converted 1780s farmhouse at 117 Main St.

Find your summer hero pieces at AYR Beach House, in residence at 25 Madison St. Love Gwyneth Paltrow’s modern aesthetic? Swing by the Goop Sag Harbor pop-up at 4 Bay St. for her warm-weather fashion, home and beauty edit.

Bridgehampton

Transform your house into a tech hub with the latest devices at Sunrise Smarthome. The showroom at 2462 Main St. will hook you up with everything from motorized shades to 4K flatscreen TVs.

Or, if you prefer to get outside and play in the sunshine, Khanh Sports’ newest branch, at 2454 Main St., is a go-to for all the bikes, boards, Hobie kayaks and assorted accessories you may want to buy (or rent).

Gen Z shoppers, meanwhile, will discover an A to (nearly) Z of trendy brands at Shine. Head to 2454 Main St. for Alex and Ani jewelry and Yala softwear.

East Hampton

Yes, cashmere makes perfect sense on cool, beachy nights, and Brunello Cucinelli has all the luscious knits you need. The Italian luxury king has doubled the size of its 39 Newtown Lane digs.

And he’s not the only one upsizing. The Tory Burch world is available at the designer’s revamped 47 Newtown Lane store.

Jimmy Choo is popping up a few doors down. The “Lance Jelly,” a sexy waterproof gladiator sandal, is exclusive to the 33 Newtown Lane location. Your interiors also deserve their own upgrade, courtesy of the furnishings, decorative pieces and fine art from Clic Home at 100 Park Place. Snap up photos by Antoine Verglas (owner Christiane Celle’s husband and partner).

Or you can bring bébé to stay and play at charming Petit Blue Where Dreams Come True at 86 Park Place. The baby-gear, kids-clothing and toy store features an arts-and-crafts table and bean-bag chairs. They’ll never want to leave.

And, finally, Hamptons habitué Aerin Lauder is unveiling a store at 7 Newtown Lane. Collect her timeless accessories, jewelry, home and beauty must-haves at Aerin.

The shopportunities are endless.