By StoryStudio

&amp;lt;span data-mce-type=”bookmark” style=”display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;” class=”mce_SELRES_start”&amp;gt;﻿&amp;lt;/span&amp;gt;

Grand homes are being built everyday as the economy sizzles and real estate soars. Yet few of these houses possess any authentic elements of grandeur. Yes, they may present an elegant foyer, a multicar garage and other manse amenities, but where are the components that give the ambience character? The Gable Mansion offers an opportunity to live in grand luxury within a home that exudes character.

Considered a work of art for its architecture and design, the Gable Mansion epitomizes a late 19th-century grand home, replete with hand-painted ceilings, hand-stenciled wallpaper and several vibrant Tiffany-designed stained-glass windows. The architectural detail – each door is handcrafted – is simply astounding. Even the sinks, tubs and other porcelain objects were painted by hand.

While everyone will want to visit this significant residence since the Victorian mansion is listed as a State Historical Landmark, it is natural for serious buyers to inquire about updates. Fortunately, the Gable Mansion has received thorough renovations that place its convenience and modern amenities on par with any new luxury build.

The home’s interior was thoroughly renovated in the 2000s with completely new electrical wiring that provides 600 AMP service. New kitchen amenities that match modern elite standards were also installed, as was Yestertec cabinetry that provides the look of mahogany without the environmental impact.

Extensive lighting systems designed by Randall Whitehead utilizing Lutron Grafik Eye and RadioRA controllers are present throughout the entire home. Seven separately zoned Unico heating and air conditioning systems work throughout the house to maintain a pleasant environment in winter and summer. Of course, direct-wired smoke detectors and security systems for the main and carriage houses were also installed. The property is also surrounded by a fence and secured with an intercom entry gate.

The home entertainment system is also state-of-the-art. A single-control audio system was installed throughout all four floors of the mansion. The Gable Theatre, designed to evoke the Paris Opera House, includes a 120” Stewart screen, THX/Dolby surround sound, a modern projector and even a vintage popcorn machine. Like America’s finest theaters, this downstairs entertainment center also includes fiber optic stars on the ceiling!

The celestial ceiling is but one of numerous customized elements throughout the home, from the Kohler Artist Edition hand-painted bathroom fixtures to the 10,000-square feet of new Thai Dynasty Axminster custom-designed wool carpet. The hand-painted stenciled ceilings above the parlors, family room and library were updated during the significant renovation process. The library walls were also hand painted. The rare red mahogany walls of the dining room perfectly complement the W.F. Norman hand-stamped tin ceiling.

The 42 rooms and living areas of the Gable Mansion have always been perfect for entertaining, beginning with the kitchen’s butler pantry, where additional dishes and other banquet-style accessories can be prepared or stored. The first floor’s 13’-high ceilings make every guest entrance impressive. The large swimming pool and Victorian gazebo, accented with an elevated knot garden, provide the perfect backdrop for lavish parties and events hosted on the 229’ x 158’ Michael Glassman designed landscape, which is accented with more than 600 rose bushes.

Recent renovations also transformed the functionality of the Woodland jewel, located at 659 1st Street just 11 miles from the Sacramento International Airport and close to two private airports. The 11,203-square foot home now contains a separate 2,600-square foot living area on the third floor, complete with a personal kitchen, family room, gym, parlor, living room and a glistening stained-glass cupola.

The aesthetic heritage never changes, however, due to the 57 brass and crystal wall sconces, the seven fireplaces and the custom-built master library. The old-growth redwood framing and interior have benefitted greatly from the new foundation and footings installed during the renovations.

A great house requires an understanding steward, someone who comprehends the value of beveled-glass transoms, a wraparound verandah and wooden shutters but also desires to live in the future with home entertainment and a kitchen designed for hosting guests. Owning the Gable Mansion offers not only an opportunity to occupy a grand home but also the privilege of preserving and enjoying a life well-lived within a California landmark.

To schedule a tour of the Gable Mansion, located at 659 1st Street, Woodland, contact Shea McGuire-Keane, McGuire Capital Group Realty, at 707-301-1349 or email sheamcguire@gmail.com.

Shea McGuire DRE#01380579

MCGR DRE#01902240

NMLS#899662