general motors

REALITY SHOW May 28 Author: Michael Wayland The Reality Capture team's work could play a key role as GM retools and plans for its next-generation trucks and complex changeovers for electric vehicles.



I-4's performance, not size, will make or break its success for GM May 28 Author: Richard Truett If consumers embrace General Motors' four-cylinder engine in the next-generation Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups, GM will have Ford to thank.



In Trump vs. California, Mary Nichols unlike any other negotiator May 23 As the head of CARB, Mary Nichols is arguably California's most powerful weapon in its war with President Donald Trump over the state's plan to combat climate change and have automakers toe the California line.



Downsized engines a test for GM pickups May 21 Author: Michael Wayland Ford's success with its V-6 EcoBoost engines has proved that V-8 engines aren't necessarily the default choice for pickup buyers. The question now is: How low can you go?



Threat of cobalt supply crunch could hinder EV growth May 21 A burgeoning risk of a supply crunch in cobalt -- a key battery metal that has more than tripled in price in two years -- poses one of the biggest threats to forecasts for rising electric vehicle adoption.



SOUPED UP May 21 Author: Michael Wayland On race days, Jim Campbell is an ambassador for GM to its teams, drivers, sponsors and racing league officials. He's there to make sure things are operating as smoothly as possible and if there is a problem, how to fix it.



First Shift: New engine lets Silverado run on 2 cylinders May 18 New I-4 engine lets Silverado run on 2 cylinders; Report: FCA overhaul in Italy; Toyota EV to carry GAC badge in China; VW ads say 'Betta Getta Jetta'; M-B starts G class output.



AutoNews Now: GM gives pickup wars a 4-cylinder shakeup May 18 GM gives pickup wars 4-cylinder shakeup; GT builder hires ousted Ford exec; Twist in FCA case; Nissan holding out?; 'The Closer': Shed with treads; exhausted chickens; sweet reward.



GM will equip big '19 pickups with I-4 turbo in mpg battle vs. Ford, Ram May 18 Author: Michael Wayland GM is doubling the number of engines available on the retooled 2019 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra, including a new four-cylinder turbocharged engine that can run on two cylinders to increase fuel economy. The 2.7-liter, I-4 turbo is a milestone for the company and industry.



EV batteries present new challenges for firefighters May 16 Fires on electric vehicles are rare, but the volatile chemistry of their batteries and the need for special training on how to extinguish them raises new safety questions as automakers are poised to dramatically increase production.



Title violations for Michigan Chevy dealership lead to suspension, then stay May 14 Author: Alexa St. John A Michigan Chevy dealership was granted an emergency stay to continue selling vehicles despite a 15-day suspension it received based on customer complaints and numerous title-processing violations.

