genesis

The long and painful birth of a brand May 14 Author: Hans Greimel As thorny as Genesis' retail rework has been, the U.S. dealer showdown is just one of many trials testing global brand chief Manfred Fitzgerald as he births a luxury brand. Zoom out to the global scale, and Genesis is clearly a work in progress on other measures, too.



Genesis corrects its retail course May 7 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Is Hyundai’s Genesis a make or a “model?” The question is at the heart of the lingering confusion surrounding the luxury brand’s retail strategy.



Hyundai dealers must ask: Can they believe in Genesis? May 7 Given the history we've cataloged, we'd caution them to consider their options very carefully.



AutoNews Now: Jeep, VW rise in a down month for U.S. sales May 1 Jeep, VW rise in a down month for U.S. sales; Hyundai to offer Genesis to all its U.S. dealers; Shakeup at Ford-dealer JV; 17 states suing EPA over plan to scrap emissions targets.



Genesis changes its mind on retail network -- again May 1 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Genesis General Manager Erwin Raphael told Hyundai's dealer council last week that the opportunity to sell the brand would now be offered to all Hyundai dealers in the United States -- a complete shift from the brand's previous thinking.



Genesis of frustration April 30 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Hans Greimel Hyundai's journey into luxury has been a bumpy, tortuous ride for its dealers, thanks to a strategy that was unclear from the start.



In the beginning ... April 30 Hyundai's luxury journey has been a long, confusing road for dealers, who put in the work on the ground to help establish the automaker's upscale credentials. Many of them will be watching from the sidelines as the Genesis brand takes flight.



HYUNDAI/KIA: Hyundai drops 11%, Kia up 2.5% April 3 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Hyundai Motor America's March U.S. sales fell 11 percent from the year-earlier period.



Hyundai tells Genesis castoffs: Don't lose hope April 2 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Brian Smith, COO of Hyundai Motor America, said it's likely that the Genesis brand will expand its store count in the future.



Genesis adds halo with electric Essentia concept March 28 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Genesis, taking a page out of the playbook of Germany's luxury brands, is reimagining its "athletic elegance" styling with the electric Essentia concept, a bonafide halo car.

