1:32 George Takei's accuser admits he lied about assault George Takei’s accuser has changed his tune. Scott Brunton, the former male model who alleged Takei sexually assaulted and drugged him in 1981, revealed to the Observer that he fabricated many key parts of the story.

1:15 The Kardashian clan ranked from shortest to tallest How do the Kardashian-Jenners measure up? Here’s the famous reality TV sisters’ heights from shortest, Kourtney, to tallest, Khloé and Kendall.

1:34 Kanye's 'crazy eyes' was one of the wildest Met Gala looks The annual Met Gala is the chance for A-list fashionistas to show off their avant-garde side. Some of the most outrageous outfits ever came from Rihanna, Madonna and Kanye West.

1:01 Leo will feel like the ‘king of the world’ in this $5 million mansion Leonardo DiCaprio bought DJ Moby’s $4.91 million masterpiece in the trendy Los Angeles neighborhood of Los Feliz. The five-bedroom estate has a swimming pool, hot tub, two master suites, a steam room, yoga studio, and chic mid-century modern touches throughout.

1:15 Underboob is spilling out all over Hollywood The latest trend in decolletage is underboob. Bella Thorne, Kendall Jenner and Iggy Azalea are just a few of the entertainers rocking this racy look. Demi Lovato is certainly “Not Sorry” she followed the fad. Her boobalicious post received more than 3 million likes on Instagram.

1:22 Why Kanye's love for Trump shouldn't be a shock Kanye West and President Trump shared a lovefest on Twitter. The 40-year-old rapper appeared to lose millions of followers. Fans shouldn’t be shocked to see the “Gold Digger” star wearing a MAGA hat. West has expressed his support for #45 several times since the 2016 election.

1:02 Kim somehow gets even more naked Kim Kardashian posted racy photos to promote her latest fragrance, KKW Body. The stunt, which inches dangerously close to full-frontal nudity, caused one Twitter user to joke that the scent would be “salmon” flavored.

1:48 Channing Tatum's mouth is in demand Men are asking their plastic surgeons for the “Macho Mouth” to look more like Channing Tatum, Brad Pitt and Harry Styles. “Macho Mouth” creator Dr. Rian Maercks demonstrated the cosmetic procedure on patient Mike Robley, a 25-year-old who wants the “Magic Mike” star’s smoldering pout. “If you look at Channing Tatum’s lips, you see his lower lip overpowers his upper lip, and that’s part of the appeal,” Maercks told The Post. “The lower lip in men is becoming a symbol of pride and power.”

2:01 Meghan Markle does face yoga to keep things tight Meghan Markle does “face yoga” to keep her skin looking young and beautiful. The future princess also partakes in vinyasa yoga and high-intensity Pilates to stay fit.