







window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-5', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 5', target_type: 'mix' });









window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-10', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 10', target_type: 'mix' });





window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-12', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 12', target_type: 'mix' });

















Image 1 of / 13 Caption Close Image 2 of 13 Fingerlings are another popular choice. Fingerlings are another popular choice. Image 3 of 13 L.O.L. Surprise has already sold out in many stores. L.O.L. Surprise has already sold out in many stores. Image 4 of 13 Never count out Star Wars. This BB-8 Lego set is expected to be a big hit this holiday season. Never count out Star Wars. This BB-8 Lego set is expected to be a big hit this holiday season. Image 5 of 13 Image 6 of 13 Another Lego winner is this Lego Boost robot. Another Lego winner is this Lego Boost robot. Image 7 of 13 Soggy Doggy is the rare board game to make the list. Players race around the board trying not to get soaked by the shaking puppy. Soggy Doggy is the rare board game to make the list. Players race around the board trying not to get soaked by the shaking puppy. Image 8 of 13 FurReal Roarin' Tyler reacts to noise and roars to life. FurReal Roarin' Tyler reacts to noise and roars to life. Image 9 of 13 For older kids, Laser X laser tag set is expected to be a hit. For older kids, Laser X laser tag set is expected to be a hit. Image 10 of 13 Image 11 of 13 Paw Patrol's "Sea Patroller" transforms from ship to a land vehicle. Paw Patrol's "Sea Patroller" transforms from ship to a land vehicle. Image 12 of 13 The Nerf Nitro combines a nerf gun with foam cars. Kids can set up obstacle courses or shoot off ramps for distance and speed. The Nerf Nitro combines a nerf gun with foam cars. Kids can set up obstacle courses or shoot off ramps for distance and speed. Image 13 of 13 Get these hot holiday toys now—before they sell out 1 / 13 Back to Gallery

If it seems like the holiday shopping season starts earlier and earlier every year, that’s probably because it does.

What used to kick off with “Black Friday” the day after Thanksgiving now seems to wait no later than the close of Halloween.

“No matter how you look at it, Black Friday has already begun,” Sarah Engel, chief marketing officer at retail analytics firm DynamicAction, told the Washington Post. “As soon as the calendar turned to Nov. 1, our inboxes were full of promotions and discounts.”

With the stepped-up shopping season comes even earlier predictions of which gifts will be the “hot toys” of 2017, with Amazon releasing its Top 100 gift list and Toys R Us narrowing it down to a Top 20. Gambling site Covers.com even set the odds on which toys will have parents battling in the aisles for the most-coveted gifts.

So, what are the contenders for Top Toy 2017? Everyone seems to agree that last year’s big hit, Hatchimals Surprise, will be doubly popular this year with the release of their new “twins” line. These interactive, plush animatronic hatchlings retail for around $70. For a less-pricy interactive animal robot, check out Fingerlings. These finger-squeezing monkeys—and, only at Toys R Us, unicorns—retail for about $15 and respond to noise and touch by blinking their eyes, turning their heads and even singing and blowing kisses.

Another predicted winner is the L.O.L. Surprise! that has a range of price points and “surprises” for kids to unwrap, from toys and clothes to bath bombs. The L.O.L. Big Surprise has 50 surprises and retails for $70 but is already sold out at many locations. Amazon is currently selling it for $120 through secondary vendors.

Take a look through the gallery above to see what other toys you should be stocking up on now—or risk paying a premium for later.

Emily Landes has a seven-year-old, a toddler and a pretty severe sleep deficit.