US LNG pricing evolves with third Sabine Pass train readying for start-up

The third train is set to be commissioned from Cheniere’s US Sabine Pass export plant in Louisiana in the coming months. The first year of US Sabine Pass exports, the first in recent history out of the Lower 48 states, comes at a time when margins in spot trading have become razor-thin and optimising is a key strategy for portfolio sellers. While the output from the first two trains has not had a broad impact on the LNG market, the increase of destination-free, flexible volumes is expected to change trade flows, particularly as the LNG market grows longer in supply and more shipping flexibility is required. Since the start-up of Train 1 in late February, Shell has lifted pre-commercial cargoes from Train 1, while commissioning cargoes have been sold by Cheniere Marketing, Cheniere’s trading subsidiary.

The start-up of Train 2 in August also added more commissioning cargoes to the spot market. Royal Dutch Shell has a 20-year, take-or-pay free on board (FOB) tolling agreement for Train 1 volumes with US-based Cheniere, the operator of Sabine Pass, which will formally start later in November. Spain’s Gas Natural Fenosa is the long-term offtaker for Train 2, South Korea’s KOGAS for Train 3 and India’s state network operator GAIL for Train 4. The US Department of Energy (DOE) has published the FOB prices submitted by Cheniere for exports from February through August. The prices show FOB ranging from $3.12/MMBtu FOB to $5.60/MMBtu. The FOB prices are from the point of loading and do not include shipping costs. They range from $3.12/MMBtu to $5.60/MMBtu which would have offered little room to make a margin into Asia compared with the ICIS East Asia Index (EAX). But at times of low prices and narrow margins, companies such as Shell instead have already optimised US supply to deliver cargoes to nearby locations and swap out other supply to cover contractual obligations elsewhere.

Out of the 30 cargo loadings analysed by ICIS, two-thirds of the deliveries were destined for the Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Chile. Other cargoes went to Kuwait, Dubai, Jordan and one vessel with a Sabine Pass cargo traveled through the Panama Canal to China to fulfil a long-term position. The cargoes either supplied trading houses with short positions from tenders selling on a spot basis to companies such as Argentina’s ENARSA or Mexico’s utility CFE, or were sent as part of term supply agreements, such as Shell’s long-term agreement with the consortium members of Chile’s GNL Chile in Quintero.

To find out how these key market developments will now change the face of the global LNG trade dynamics, save your seat for the ICIS Global LNG Markets and Pricing training course, as we delve into market fundamentals, including LNG shipping, supply/demand, regional differences and pricing mechanisms.