gmc

Downsized engines a test for GM pickups May 21 Author: Michael Wayland Ford's success with its V-6 EcoBoost engines has proved that V-8 engines aren't necessarily the default choice for pickup buyers. The question now is: How low can you go?



GM to reinstate 3rd shift in Spring Hill, plans Holden version of GMC Acadia April 25 Author: Michael Wayland GM plans to reinstate a third shift at its assembly plant in Tennessee to meet growing demand in the United States for crossovers and add production of an all-new Holden version of the GMC Acadia.



GM dealers air grievances with using CDK April 2 Author: Michael Wayland The problems they cited include untimely dealer support, "clunky" functionality and simply not having another GM-approved choice for websites.



Bumper nostrils, knockouts and light blades: What people are saying about GMC's '19 Sierra March 27 Author: Jack Walsworth General Motors is trying to distinguish the 2019 GMC Sierra from rivals -- as well as from its platform mate, the Chevrolet Silverado -- with extra luxury features and technologies that the automaker calls segment-leading. Here's a look at what journalists and others are saying about the Sierra.



First Shift: Uber disabled safety tech before AV fatality March 27 Uber disabled safety tech before AV fatality, Ariz. suspends testing; GMC launches off-road subbrand; GM Korea bankruptcy threat; 55 mpg for Honda Insight; Rise of Prime Automotive.



GMC launches off-road AT4 brand with Sierra March 26 Author: Michael Wayland With an eye on brands such as Jeep and off-road enthusiasts, GMC will introduce AT4 variants across its lineup. Like the Denali subbrand, the AT4 lineup is expected to be priced higher than standard GMC models and generate fatter profits.



For Buick-GMC dealers, profitability is the focus March 23 Author: Michael Wayland Buick-GMC dealers' profitability is not only the top priority for the brand's new national dealer council chairman. It's the top three.



Bumper nostrils, knockouts and light blades: What people are saying about GMC's '19 Sierra March 20 Author: Jack Walsworth General Motors is trying to distinguish the 2019 GMC Sierra from rivals -- as well as from its platform mate, the Chevrolet Silverado -- with extra luxury features and technologies that the automaker calls segment-leading. Here's a look at what journalists and others are saying about the Sierra.



Buick-GMC dealers say they're open to longer factory initiatives March 19 Author: Michael Wayland The Buick-GMC National Dealer Council is open to changing annual company initiatives such as brand and store standards to multiyear programs.



'19 GMC Sierra gets high-tech tailgate, bed March 5 Author: Michael Wayland A versatile tailgate and a carbon fiber bed for the redesigned GMC Sierra pickup are in addition to bolder styling, more luxury amenities and a weight reduction from the current version of up to 360 pounds.



AutoNews Now: Detroit 3 sales slip in Feb. cooldown March 1 Detroit 3 sales slip in Feb. cooldown; Steel, aluminum tariff plan; Jag I-Pace, GMC Sierra break cover; Kia's new U.S. boss; Suppliers vs. automakers; FCA- Ford-Mazda Texas team.

