CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The trade association for the firearms industry is using federal grant money to hand out thousands of gun locks in the Cleveland area, as well as to educate the public on firearms safety.

The National Shooting Sports Foundation has allocated 10,000 cable-style gun locks and safety kits allocated for the greater Cleveland area to be passed out to gun owners for the next year, foundation spokesman Bill Romanelli said Wednesday.

The key for "Project ChildSafe Cleveland" is to prevent gun-related accidents and suicides, he said.

Romanelli made the announcement during a news conference held at the U.S. Attorney's Office at the federal courthouse in downtown Cleveland. The initiative is paid for by a $2.4 million grant from the Bureau of Justice Assistance - a part of the Justice Department - and will pay for locks and education over two years in Cleveland, Oklahoma City and Memphis, Tennessee, Robinelli said.

The Cleveland area has seen numerous instances of children picking up a handgun in their home and either hurting or killing another person or themselves.

U.S. Attorney Justin Herdman also said using gun locks prevents guns from being stolen and used in crimes.

"No matter what someone's positions is on firearms, I think everyone can agree that if people exercise their right to legally own firearms, they need to be responsible and to properly secure and store those firearms," Herdman said.

In addition to the U.S. Attorney's Office, the foundation is working with other organizations and businesses to distribute the locks and information. C. Jay Matthews, pastor of Mt. Sinai Baptist Church, said people will be able to obtain a gun lock at his church.

Also on hand to support the program is former Cleveland Browns defensive tackle and local media personality Bob Golic.

"Especially when you have kids, as you get older and you hear all the stories out there, you realize that it's better to be safe," Golic said.

Robinelli said his organization is also talking to MetroParks police in the hopes it gets involved. It is also hoping to gain the support of Cleveland police, he said.

Information can be found here.