In 1969, biologists discovered three lizards from New Guinea whose innards were green: bones, muscles, blood and all. Even their eggs seemed green. Today, scientists are exploring the unlikely the cause of the green blood: a pigment that typically kills.

Animal blood comes in a variety of colors based on their chemical makeup: humans use hemoglobin to carry oxygen, which makes our blood red. Octopuses, lobsters and horseshoe crabs use hemocyanin, which means blue blood. There are marine worms with violet blood and leeches with green blood — but lizards use the same red-inducing hemoglobin to carry oxygen as humans do.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Red blood cells only live for a couple of months. When they die, our bodies recycle the iron inside them, creating a green pigment called biliverdin, which gets converted into a yellow one called bilirubin. Biliverdin can kill cells, destroy neurons and kill cells, which is why human livers attempt to filter out bilirubin as quickly as possible.

Christopher Austin

But some lizards have up to 20 times more biliverdin in their blood than ever recorded in a human, so much that it overshadows their hemoglobin. Not only that: but several different species of lizards share this bizarre trait, and seemingly evolved independently of each other. Does that mean green blood confers an unexpected advantage?

Maybe — scientists speculate that it could a defense against malaria. Hundreds of malaria parasites infect lizards, and some studies have shown that biliverdin can block the growth of the parasite that causes the illness, as well as killing infected red blood cells. But green-blooded lizards still get malaria: if the green blood is related to malaria, it’s possible that different strands of the parasite evolved to combat the biliverdin.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Either way, researchers are excited to explore how lizards tolerate the toxic chemical. “For a scientist, it’s like discovering green gold,” Adriana Briscoe, an evolutionary biologist, told The Atlantic. Studying green-blooded lizards could lead to new treatments for jaundice, or even malaria.

(via The Atlantic)