The Gun Owners Action League of Massachusetts is pledging to fight the proposed “extreme risk” gun bill as it heads to the Senate after overwhelmingly passing the House this week, but its battle may be a long shot with policymakers on both sides of the aisle supporting the legislation.

“We’re going to continue to work against it,” said Jim Wallace, executive director of GOAL. “Originally, it was about preventing suicide and stopping mass murder, and then on Monday they released a completely new version of the bill. It was a gun bill. It is a moving target you can’t pin down. It is purely a gun confiscation bill now.”

The bill, approved by the Democrat-controlled House on a 139-14 vote, would allow for the temporary removal of guns from people who are considered a danger to themselves or others by allowing relatives and people close to a gun owner to petition to remove the firearms.

“It has nothing to do with stopping suicide or mass murder,” Wallace said. “It will only take their legal gun away and set them loose on our kids and society.”

But the proposal has broad support as it heads to the Senate.

“We are currently wrapping our budget debate but intend to move forward on our priorities, including gun safety, in the coming weeks. The Senate president is generally supportive of the legislation that has passed the House,” said Kevin Connor, spokesman for Senate President Harriette L. Chandler.

Gov. Charlie Baker has indicated support for the law when it hits his desk.

“Governor Baker believes Massachusetts’ effective gun laws are a model for the nation and is supportive of the concept in the (Extreme Risk Protection Order) bill to establish an additional pathway to keep guns away from those who are unfit to possess them. The governor will carefully review any legislation that comes to his desk,” said Lizzy Guyton, Baker’s communications director in a statement.

“Strong gun laws save lives,” said Attorney General Maura Healey in a statement. “They’re one reason Massachusetts has the lowest rate of gun violence in the country. This critical legislation will help us take the next step by making sure people who pose a risk of harm to themselves or others do not have access to a gun. I applaud Speaker (Robert A.) DeLeo, Representative (Marjorie) Decker, and the House for advancing this important measure, and urge the Senate and the Governor to act quickly to join them.”