Halo Neuroscience is aiming to expand the utility of its Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (TDCS) technology – which is currently used to assist rehabilitation of injured special operations forces (SOF) operators – to tactical training applications.

Jerry Paris, senior director for government business development at Halo Neuroscience, told Jane’s at the Special Operations Forces Industry Conference (SOFIC) in Tampa, Florida, that the company is working with the special operations community – including the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIUX) and multiple force components from the US Army Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) and Naval Special Warfare Command – to determine if its Halo Sport neuro-stimulator headsets can be used to enhance close-quarter battle (CQB) training.

The company is also in discussion with 3M the integration of Halo Sport technology into the latter’s Peltor tactical communications headset, as worn by operators in CQB scenarios.

According to Paris, the Halo Sport headset – which sends a small and controlled electrical current to an operator’s motor cortex allowing the brain to retrain more rapidly and efficiently – is already in service with the 3rd, 7th, and 10th Special Forces Groups, Naval Special Warfare Groups 1 and 2, as well as the Development Group (DEVGRU).

The Halo Sport headset is designed to increase the excitability of motor neurons, placing the motor cortex in a temporary state of hyperplasticity or hyperlearning. It is currently used to assist SOF operators in injury rehabilitation, pain management, motor skill acquisition, and strength and power development, Paris noted.

Paris told Jane’s that Halo Neuroscience is considering additional methods to connect Halo Sport to a variety of end-user devices, including smartphones.

The company claims that a 13% increase in performance can be achieved following testing conducted with the US Olympic Ski Team.

Want to read more? For analysis on this article and access to all our insight content, please enquire about our subscription options at ihs.com/contact

Comment

Tier-1 SOF units, including DEVGRU, continue to seek novel and next-generation technologies to assist operators conducting complex counter-terrorism tasks in challenging operating conditions.