183 Edgemere St., Montauk

This sceney 21-room hotel (above) is partnering with NYC-based exercise joints like Gotham Gym, the Bari Studio and Y7 this summer. Complimentary classes will range from ballet and body-sculpting to cardio yoga, while an impressive roster of speakers includes Deepak Chopra and Bobbi Brown. A wellness area (designed by ABC Carpet & Home) has been added to the hotel’s top floor, offering massages and IV drips for guests who need help recovering from the party vibe. Room amenities have been switched to the natural, sustainable line Seed Phytonutrients, while minibars will be stocked with complimentary Well Told Health supplement boosters and Caudalie “Beauty Elixir” spray.

From $450/night.

290 Old Montauk Highway, Montauk

This iconic property (where all rooms face the sea) is partnering with the Wellth Collective — a firm that focuses on wellness and travel — this season. That means transplanting classes from some of the city’s best boutique studios, including Y7 (yoga), ModelFIT (cardio and sculpt) and Lifted (high-intensity interval training) to Gurney’s. After your workout, you can carb-load at Italian favorite Scarpetta, which has an outpost here. An onsite spa offers a full range of treatments, from mineral scrubs and herbal wraps to deep-tissue massages and oxygen facials, and is installing three HigherDose infrared saunas this summer.

From $875/night.

181 Main St., East Hampton

Energy healer Tim Stoneman will hold court at this Cotswolds-inspired, 17th-century English manor house from July 2 to 9. He’ll offer private sessions (starting at $200) in hypnotherapy (for stress reduction, sleep and happiness), along with reiki, a Japanese technique said to balance and restore the body. Pilates queen Erika Bloom will also give complimentary weekend lessons throughout July and August. The hotel — which has guest rooms overlooking a pretty pond or lush grounds — is also stocked with two pools and an onsite spa.

From $615/night.

90 Second House Road, Montauk

An oasis of lawns, lakeside Balinese beds and fire pits, Sole East is perched just a short walk from town. In addition to offering bikes and a heated pool (manned by a weekend DJ), the resort has tapped Xtend Barre for a summer residency; the studio will conduct circuit and barre classes on its outdoor deck for guests (who receive a 20-percent discount off the $34 classes). Sacred Space Revolution is bringing its vibe to the East End as well, presenting mystical wellness workshops, tarot- card readings and complimentary crystal facials. The menu at the hotel’s Backyard restaurant is full of fresh fish and local produce, while the Elk will provide a pop-up fresh-juice cart.

From $299/night.

31 W. Water St., Sag Harbor

This 4-year-old waterfront hotel has added a resort activity concierge, who can help guests plot all their fitness options. In addition to a weekly tennis clinic, athletic offerings include bicycles, yoga, paddleboarding on the bay and complimentary classes (from spinning to kickboxing) at nearby Sag Harbor Gym, along with spa services back at Baron’s. After you’ve worked up an appetite, it’s an easy walk to some of the Hamptons’ hottest restaurants. Or if you’re all tuckered out, the hotel’s restaurant is also worth a visit.

From $279/night.

91 Hill St., Southampton

East Hampton fitness studio Elements will set up poolside at this resort-style property, offering 25-minute stretch and strengthening classes ($25) using resistance bands and barre-inspired exercises. The inn also offers tennis and bike rentals and can arrange nearby horseback riding and tee times at local public golf courses. The hotel’s restaurant, Claude’s, has added a spa menu this season; for those who want to stretch their legs off-property, there are plenty of shops and dining spots a short stroll away.

From $290/night.

371 Montauk Highway, Water Mill

Work off a hearty breakfast (such as yogurt panna cotta with a strawberry-balsamic muffin or a cheesy egg sandwich) at this 3-year-old inn, which offers complimentary yoga classes at Five Pillars, just steps away. Sessions at the studio, which is filled with natural light, range from morning vinyasa to lateafternoon restorative yoga. White Fences also has its own large heated pool for those who prefer doing laps. After your dip, hop into the luxe shower in your room, mist on some eucalyptus spray, wrap yourself in the cushy robe and curl up in your Frette sheets sprayed with lavender mist.

From $625/night.