By StoryStudio

What makes Abrams Claghorn Gallery unique is its dedication to exhibiting local, emerging, and underrepresented artists. Walk into the gallery and you’ll experience a variety of works inspired by the wide range of nationalities, ethnicities, gender identities, cultures, and religions that you find in the Bay Area.

From June 5 through 30, Abrams Claghorn will present a new—and very relevant—exhibit. Have You Heard Us Yet? brings together artists’ powerful responses to the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements.

The show centers around women’s​ hopes for 2018 in regards to equality. It gives voice to the issues that many women feel have largely not been heard, digested, and acted upon by those currently​ in power in our society.

have you heard us yet?

Elizabeth House is a residential transitional program for women with children who have experienced homelessness, violence addiction, or poverty. The vision of Oakland Elizabeth House is to offer residence to women with children who have experienced the poverty of homelessness, violence or addiction. Help us raise funds for Oakland Elizabeth House and for a mural!Elizabeth House is a residential transitional program for women with children who have experienced homelessness, violence addiction, or poverty. The vision of Oakland Elizabeth House is to offer residence to women with children who have experienced the poverty of homelessness, violence or addiction.

These two movements have had a huge influence over our sociopolitical state in the first half of 2018. By continuing to shed light on the issues that launched these movements, we will get ever closer ​as a society to ​righting power imbalances.

The works of 10 female poets will be visually represented and interpreted by 15 Bay Area artists through paintings, ceramic sculptures, and musical interpretation. Although they have never met, these women are collaborating to spread a powerful message through their collective work.

Every contributor has a distinct voice and something meaningful to say that will leave an impact and inspire hope.

As curator Alyssa Stanghellini says, “The message that I envisioned for this exhibit was one of hope. I want the viewer to walk away from the exhibit with a ‘fire in their gut,’ where they feel ready to face injustice, whether at home, in the workplace, or out on the street, with the bravery to extinguish fear and speak up for themselves.

A few of the featured artists and poets describe the message and inspiration behind their pieces:

“Long before the #MeToo movement acquired a name, I have been incensed at civil rights injustices in all arenas. In this poem, I found myself examining some of what passes as the socially acceptable or ‘white collar’ forms of sexism, along with the more blatant ones.”

—Sandra Anfang

“My piece, ‘My Daughter Stands,’ was inspired by the worry and fear I feel about my daughter’s future. It speaks of the helplessness I feel at having so little power to protect her. The ‘wishing’ sequences portray my desires for her to have a life containing love and beauty strong enough to help her survive and be herself in this hostile world. They talk about the things love and friendship and sisterhood could have the power to give her.”

—Lori Lynne Armstrong

“What I’m offering through my art is authentic conversation, a place where the audience feels safe to be imperfect and appreciate themselves because of their uniqueness. In my work I want to create a place where it’s OK to express insecurity. All that counts is honesty.”

—Nicole Rubio

“The opportunity to be a part of this show came to me during a time of great transition and upheaval, for me and many others (one could say for the entire country). Some moments feel so disorienting that it’s hard to know what actions to take, what words to say. How do we support ourselves in being responsive instead of reactive when the structures and ways of being we thought were stable (or wanted to think were stable) are crumbling? Perhaps a part of this answer is to find a foundation in our shared experience of upheaval—to listen for the common threads that hold us, and that we in turn can hold onto.”

—Kaitlin McSweeney

“My piece, ‘Madam X,’ is inspired by the poem by Becky Bishop White entitled ‘What I Wish Men Would Know.’ I love the spirit behind the poem that says women’s success and empowerment are good for everyone. My Madam X is powerful and celebrated but not threatening. She is wearing her money proudly and working from a position of power. The spirit of the poem is that empowering women is a win-win for everyone.”

—Ceci Bowman

Have You Heard Us Yet? features poetry by Jeanie Ngo, Claire J. Baker, Lori Lynne Armstrong, Janis Hashe, Vicki Gunter, Becky Bishop White, Sandra Anfang, Kelliane Parker, Tiffany Higgins, and Nicole Rubio. The new and original artworks featured are by Rena Charles, Julianne Sterling, Hope Armstrong, Hellenmae, Mary Andersen, Ceci Bowman, Carol Jenkins, Kirsten Piroth, Kaitlin McSweeney, Mojgan Saberi, Nour, Vicki Gunter, Suzanne Long, Anna Vaughan, and Leah Tumerman.

The exhibit will be showing June 5 to 30, with an artist reception on June 9 from 5 to 7 p.m. Abrams Claghorn Gallery is located at 1251 Solano Avenue in Albany, at the corner of Masonic and Solano Avenues. Parking in Albany is free for 90 minutes. You can also walk to the gallery easily from the El Cerrito BART station. For more information, call 510.526.9558 or visit www.abramsclaghorn.com.

New events with this show:

Wed. June 20

Artist’s Talk: “Have You Heard Us Yet?”

Abrams Claghorn Gallery

1251 Solano Avenue, Albany ,CA

Exhibiting the works of 10 female writers, the Abrams Claghorn Gallery will be showing poems visually represented as interpreted by 15 Bay Area artists; collaborating but having never met! Hear the artists talk about how they responded to the poetry. Light refreshments will be served.

Time: 5 pm – 7 pm

Cost: FREE

Wed. June 27

Poetry Evening to celebrate “Have You Heard Us Yet?”

Abrams Claghorn Gallery

1251 Solano Avenue, Albany, CA

Join 10 female writers exhibiting poetry and other local writers in this evening of Poetry reading. Celebrating the current exhibition, this event will focus on the intention of the current exhibition, “Have You Heard Us Yet?”, emphasizing women’s hopes for 2018 that they feel have largely not been heard. Co-hosted and curated by local poet Katharine Harer.

Time: 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm

COST: FREE/ Donations accepted