Sen. Robert Kennedy clasps the hand of an unidentified girl near the intersection of 12th Street and Clairmount on his May 15, 1968 visit to Detroit, the last time he visited Michigan before his assassination that June. (Photo: Andrew Sacks)

Once upon a time in America, there was a presidential candidate who galvanized Appalachian coal miners, migrant farm workers, impoverished inner city residents and disaffected college students in a campaign the likes of which the country had never seen.

In a 12-week odyssey cut short by an assassin's bullet, he attracted crowds whose size and frenzied enthusiasm terrified his staff. Burly bodyguards clutched him around the waist as he barnstormed the nation's cities in open convertibles, anchoring the candidate against the outstretched hands that grasped for his arms, his cufflinks, even his hair.

Robert Kennedy made his final campaign stop in Detroit 50 years ago this week, a visit that took him to the Jefferson Assembly plant, the streets of Hamtramck, and the near west side neighborhood that had erupted in rioting 10 months earlier.

But the crowds that thronged his motorcade at the intersection of 12th and Clairmount on May 15, 1968, were exuberant, not hostile. Andy Sacks, then a 20-year-old University of Michigan junior dispatched to photograph Kennedy's visit for the Michigan Daily, remembers watching black Detroiters swarm the candidate's motorcade whenever it paused. At one stop, when Kennedy lost his balance as he shook hands with supporters from a platform erected in the street, Sacks instinctively reached out and grabbed his suitcoat, yanking him upright.

More: Detroit 1967 Riot: Rebellion and Unrest

More: Secret JFK files are peppered with Detroit people, places and incidents

Sacks, who joined nine other photographers and TV cameramen in a convertible trailing Kennedy's own, was as excited to be rubbing elbows with professionals he idolized as he was by their proximity to the candidate. One of them, a legendary Life magazine photojournalist named Bill Eppridge, would soon snap an iconic image of Kennedy lying mortally wounded on the floor of a Los Angeles hotel kitchen.

"Looking back, the access we had to him was kind of amazing," Sacks recalled in a phone conversation last week. "That would never happen in today's environment."

Even before he was back in Ann Arbor, watching his negatives blossom in the Michigan Daily's darkroom, Sacks knew he'd taken great pictures. The most memorable image captured Kennedy linking hands across the crowd with a young black girl near the epicenter of the 1967 riot.

Michigan Daily photographer Andrew Sacks focuses his camera on Sen. Robert Kennedy during his May 15, 1968 visit to Detroit. (Photo: Jay Cassidy, U-M Bentley Historical Library)

Uncanny similarities

Sacks went on to a successful career as a freelance photographer based in metro Detroit. His photographs of RFK's visit to Detroit were reprinted from time, and in 2006 he licensed Getty Images, the editorial stock house that had employed him since its inception, to market 16 of them to news media, book publishers and other clients seeking photos of Kennedy's presidential campaign.

So late last year, when a friend called to congratulate him after spotting one of his photos on the cover of a new, best-selling memoir of Kennedy's campaign, the photographer was puzzled; he couldn't recall the book's publisher, Simon & Schuster, being listed among the purchasers to whom Getty had sold rights to reprint Sacks' photos.

Dickerson: Schneiderman scandal tests defenders' capacity to see the ugly truth

Nancy Kaffer: Why was Islamophobe Colbeck at last night's GOP gubernatorial debate?

Curious, Sacks asked his wife to pick up a copy of the new book: "Bobby Kennedy: A Raging Spirit," by MSNBC anchorman Chris Matthews. She found a copy at an Ann Arbor bookstore, but left without purchasing it after noting that, according to the publisher, the photo adorning the book's dustjacket had been shot by Bill Eppridge, the now-deceased Life magazine photographer who had joined Sacks in chronicling Kennedy's May 1968 visit to Detroit.

Book cover, “Bobby Kennedy: A Raging Spirit” by author Chris Matthews (Photo: amazon.com)

Sacks' first impulse was to conclude that the friend who had first called Matthews' book to his attention had been mistaken about the cover photograph's provenance. Perhaps Eppridge, the more famous photographer, had shot frames similar to the images on Sacks' negatives while the two stood elbow-to-elbow that long-ago spring day.

But his curiosity lingered. When he downloaded images of the book's cover and compared them to the photograph he had authorized Getty to license, the resemblance was uncanny: Every detail matched, from the angle of the little girl's arms to the expressions on the faces of others watching her encounter with Kennedy.

Nearly convinced, he sent both images to Jay Cassidy, a second Michigan Daily photographer who'd shot Kennedy's Detroit visit (including a photo, included here, that caught Sacks in the act of photographing the candidate). Cassidy, now a Los Angeles-based film editor of note, scrutinized both images and confirmed Sacks' conclusion: Both were copies of the same picture.

The missing money

Upon reviewing the statements Getty mailed him every month, Sacks noticed another oddity: According to the statements, no one, including Matthews' publisher Simon & Schuster, had purchased rights to use any of Sacks' RFK photos in the 11 years Getty had been licensed to sell them. Was that really possible?

No, as it turned out. Purchasers had been buying reprint rights to Sacks' RFK photos for a decade, but Getty had been crediting Sacks' share of the licensing fees to other accounts, including the New York Times' photo archives. Clients whose payments had been misdirected included Simon & Schuster, which had paid Getty for the right to reprint Sacks' photograph on Matthews' book cover but erroneously credited it to the late Eppridge.

"Andy got screwed," summarizes Stephen Selbst, the New York lawyer (and fellow Michigan Daily alum) Sacks retained to get the credit and money he was due.

Sen. Robert Kennedy and his wife, Ethel, ride an open convertible in a motorcade through Detroit during his his May 15, 1968 visit to Detroit, the last time he visited Michigan before his assassination that June. (Photo: Andrew Sacks)

History, uncorrected

Six months, four printings, and 250,000 copies after the release of Matthews' book, all three parties concerned agree that Simon & Schuster paid Getty for licensing rights to Sacks' photo, which Getty clearly identified as his work.

Selbst says the book publisher has acknowledged in writing that it screwed up by erroneously attributing the photo to Eppridge. Sacks says Simon & Schuster has also promised to credit him in future printings, but has not made clear when or whether it will publish a dustjacket with his name on it.

More: Mike Thompson's cartoon gallery

Mike Thompson: Want better choices in November? Then vote this August

In the meantime, Sacks adds, Getty has sent him a check for $7,800 in fees it says were erroneously credited to other accounts, but its unclear what that sum represents, or whether it includes his share of the licensing fee Simon & Schuster paid.

Selbst says that while Getty has expressed sympathy with his client's cause, the stock house has been "disappointingly opaque" about its accounting with regard to the 16 RFK photos, which represent only a fraction of the hundreds of images Sacks has authorized Getty to license on his behalf.

Lawyers for Getty and Simon & Schuster did not respond to my phone calls seeking their comment on the mistakes Selbst and Sacks say they have acknowledged privately.

Sacks has yet to file a lawsuit, but he says he will use any restitution he obtains to provide scholarships for underprivileged high school students interested in studying photography.

Sen. Robert Kennedy in an open convertible in a motorcade through Detroit during his his May 15, 1968 visit to Detroit, the last time he visited Michigan before his assassination that June. (Photo: Andrew Sacks)

Most importantly, he says, he wants recognition for capturing a singular moment in his country's political life. He told me he's talked to Julia Clancy, Matthews' producer at MSNBC, but hasn't been able to reach Matthews himself. Clancy didn't respond to my request to speak to Matthews, either.

"This is a history book," Sacks observes, "a book Chris Matthews wrote to document the life and times of an extraordinary figure. "I'm sure he would certify that every fact he asserts in it is true, and that every quotation he uses is attributed correctly.

"But 250,000 copies have gone to press with the wrong photographer's name on the dust jacket," he adds. "I'd like them to do something about that.

Brian Dickerson is the editorial page editor of the Detroit Free Press. Contact him at bdickerson@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IfqvQQ