They run where no one wants to go.

They run into the dark, knowing there might be a person or persons with guns.

They run into burning buildings.

They dive into murky waters.

They run to catch criminals, save lives, and witness the horror.

They race through our streets, blaring sirens, a heartbeat away from a catastrophic traffic accident.

They do the things no one else can or wants to do.

They do this willingly, obediently, and cheerfully. It is their duty. It is their privilege. It is their honor.

It is their job.

Sometimes, cops and firefighters run in and never come out.

Chicago Fire Department diver, Juan J. Bucio, dove into the murky waters of the Chicago River to search for a person who supposedly jumped into the river. He became separated from his dive partner.

Chicago Fire and Police Department divers searched for Juan Bucio. Police divers found him and pulled his lifeless body from the water.

Heaven received another star to shine down upon us.

The ritual began. He was escorted by police and fire to Stroger Hospital. It was too late to save him.

The escort paraded to the Office of the Medical Examiner, two fire trucks with crossed ladders and an American flag greeted him. Police and fire personnel stood in formations to see him off.

There will be more rituals and ceremony. This is what they do. It is part of the job.

His families, personal, and fire department, will mourn, grieve, and celebrate his life. He will be feted and buried with full honors.

Juan Bucio will be remembered because they, who run in knowing they may never come out, never forget.

This is the life they chose. They did not choose death, death chose them.

Every day, Chicago Police and Fire personnel leave their homes, not knowing if they will return. Every day, their families never know if they will see their loved ones again.

There is always fear of the phone call or doorbell ringing. People in uniform and a chaplain on the porch with grim faces who do not want to be there delivering news they dread to deliver.

It is a fear rarely talked about in their homes. It is a fear rarely discussed in police stations and firehouses.

They all know it could happen. They all know that when they show up for work it could be their last day on earth.

Yet, day after day, they show up. Day after day, they run in. Day after day they face the mundane boredom or the few minutes of excitement that could end their lives. They do it because no one else can. They do it because no one else will.

Their deaths are not glorious. Heroic, yes. There is no glory in death. There is only tragedy and grief.

Juan J. Bucio dove into the unknown murky waters of the Chicago River to search for a person who supposedly jumped into the river.

Supposedly. Let that word linger. Supposedly.

Who does things like that? What kind of person has the dedication to go into the unknown to search for the unknown?

Having been there, done that, and witnessed it all, I know the answer.

"Never forget," is more than a motto or slogan. It is an oath, an act of faith, emergency responders take unto themselves.

Chicago will never forget Juan J. Bucio.