Sharon Silke Carty is mobility editor for Automotive News and editor of Shift magazine

Sharon Silke Carty is mobility editor for Automotive News and editor of Shift magazine

Welcome to the first issue of Shift, which takes a look at some of the battlegrounds between traditional automakers and innovative disrupters changing the transportation sector.

Yes, we called this issue Dinosaurs and Disrupters. But in case you think we’re knocking on the traditional automakers by calling them dinosaurs, consider this: There are about 10,000 varieties of dinosaurs that survived and still roam the earth.

We just call them birds.

Today’s dinosaurs are the coolest, most enviable creatures on the planet. No other animals have figured out how to sustain flight on their own power. Even we smarty-pants humans have to climb into metal tubes to get up in the air. Heck, we haven’t even figured out commercial-grade jetpacks, let alone flying cars or teleportation.

The process of evolution and extinction is exciting and scary, creative and destructive, and full of winners and losers. At Shift, Automotive News’ new magazine, we are focusing on changes in the traditional auto industry. The changes that will mean the transformation of carmakers into transportation providers.

Do we know exactly where the industry is headed? No. But we hope to provide information that will help business leaders from startups to conventional corporations navigate these turbulent and exciting times.

And we hope to see many of you fly.

Sincerely. Sharon Silk CartyEditor

JOIN US IN COLUMBUS FOR 'SMART PARTNERSHIPS'

Executives at the convergence of tech and transportation are invited to attend the first SHIFT Live session on June 14, from 1:00 - 4:00 p.m. at the Transportation Research Center near Columbus, Ohio.

Two speaker panels will address challenges, opportunities and game-

changers in the new urban transportation ecosystem. An optional tour of the TRC facility and SMART Center follows.

There is no charge to attend, courtesy of JobsOhio.

Learn more and register at autonews.com/ShiftLive