By StoryStudio





























Image 1 of / 8 Caption Close Image 2 of 8 Image 3 of 8 Image 4 of 8 Image 5 of 8 Image 6 of 8 Image 7 of 8 Image 8 of 8 Hello my name is Robin and I am joyfully addicted to Artisan Chocolate 1 / 8 Back to Gallery

Robin isn’t the only one. More people are eating chocolate with greater frequency than ever before. And are increasingly curious about the plethora of amazing chocolates that are being made.

Enter the first ever International Chocolate Festival Silicon Valley.

From bean to bar, bon bons and beyond the same spirit of innovation that prevails throughout the Bay Area will be showcased during two full Days of Chocolate Ecstasy.

Never before has there been greater creativity in the crafting of Chocolate creations. At the International Chocolate Festival you will be sampling amazing Artisanal chocolates from the raw to the ritual, organic and orgasmic, white, milk, and dark, drinking chocolates and cocktails with chocolate. If you are living the chocolate lifestyle and want to taste more, learn more or experience more The International Chocolate Festival Silicon Valley will indulge your wildest Chocolate fantasies. A Willy Wonka-esque weekend for Adults, taking place at the San Mateo Event Center April 21-22 from 10am to 5 pm.

The ICFSV brings together makers from around the world together with their most ardent fans.

Chocolates, Food and Wines for the Most Discriminating Bay Area Foodies

It’s no secret: Bay Area residents are spoiled for choice when it comes to fine food and wines. With a dynamic local food scene sourcing products from the surrounding wineries and small farms harnessing the flavors of our unmatched terroir, it’s no wonder our palates are insanely refined. When it comes to discovering new culinary horizons, we’re always hungry for more. And in the realm of food frontiers, chocolate is about as tasty and sensual as they come—one that warrants thorough exploration.

That’s why the International Chocolate Festival is bringing the most creative and influential chocolate artisans and gourmet chefs from around the world to seduce your taste buds and grow your gastronomic repertoire. Renowned New York chocolatier Mast Brothers will be available with their elegantly simple, minimally processed, sustainably sourced sweets.

Brooklyn is the ground zero for chocolate innovation. It will be represented by the award winning Milkboy Swiss Chocolates who will be sampling Finest Alpine White Chocolate with Blue Potato Chips and Sea Salt and Dark Chocolate with Essential Pine Tree Oil.

Far East is far out when it comes to the delectable bean to bar chocolates from maker Sweet Escalier from Niigata, Japan. Their rare bars are pieces of art. Using traditional style Japanese brush paintings of scenes of life there, the bars come in equally intricate flavors. Their Hazelnut bar is a rising sun chocolate lovers will want for their home chocolate vaults.

Attendees with also have the chance to see the ancient traditions of Cacao come alive. The One Light Tribe will be leading a sacred Cacao Ceremony on Sunday at 1130-1230pm with Isabel and Ari. This is the spiritual side of chocolate that will be fascinating to explore. It begins with partaking of a very intense ritual drinking Cacao from Guatemala, then the ceremony will move into breathing work and sound therapy with vibrating bowls.

Out-Of-This-World Chocolatey Creativity, Silicon Valley Style

Silicon Valley is known worldwide for its forward-thinking innovation, and for good reason. We seek out creative approaches to technology, products, and practices—and our culinary experiences are no exception. At the International Chocolate Festival, you’ll find chocolatiers putting fresh spins on flavors, techniques, and ingredients that shine a whole new light on this time-tested delicacy.

Need Chocolate? What: International Chocolate Festival

International Chocolate Festival When: April 21-22 from 10am-5pm

April 21-22 from 10am-5pm Where: San Mateo Event Center

Bon bon fans will gush over Miami’s Cao, whose owner Ricardo spent years traveling the world over visiting family-run, Fair Trade certified cacao farms to source the absolute best product for his small-batch cacao liquor, painstakingly made using a process designed to ensure optimal molecular stability. That liquid gold goes into each one of Cao’s truffles and bon bons, with a rolling cast of flavors that change weekly, from passionfruit to chai tea to Thai curry.

The festival also welcomes Dubai’s Al Nassma, the first and only camel milk chocolate producer in the UAE. Aside from being healthier and higher in vitamins than cow’s milk, camel’s milk creates some damn delicious chocolates. Al Nassma’s luxurious creations are all made without preservatives or chemical additives and feature flavors central to the Arabic palate. Try the buttery Camel Caravan, with its honey cream and macadamia center, or the mysterious Arabia, spiced with cinnamon and cardamom.

Those who want to take some of that chocolate creativity back into their home kitchens will have plenty of opportunities to garner inspiration from numerous onsite cooking displays. Chocolate isn’t just for dessert—this superfood is chock full of antioxidants and mood boosters. At the Chocolate Festival, skillful chefs from near and far will be demonstrating the most delicious ways to unlock all that flavonoid goodness.

Meet the Fascinating Folks Behind Your Epicurean Experiences

Here in the Bay, we want to know what goes into our food—where it’s from, how it’s made, and the stories behind it all. At the International Chocolate Festival, you’ll meet the people who’ve made curating memorable culinary experiences their passion and learn all about what goes on behind the scenes.





San Francisco’s own Petit Pot serves up silky, decadent pot de crème dotingly created by owner Maxime in traditional French style. Maxime make the most of Bay Area bounty, creating sumptuous flavors like dark chocolate, Madagascar vanilla, salted caramel, and lemon curd using only the best, sustainably sourced dairy goods and essential oils.

Founded by San Franciscan Kelsey Witherow, who left the tech world to follow her sweet tooth, DOUGHP is home to the most legit cookie dough on the West Coast. Its tasty and healthy flaxseed base is designed to be safely edible when raw, but is equally addictive when baked to warm, gooey perfection. And with “delicious AF” flavors like Lavender Dreamz (lavender, oatmeal, and white chocolate) and Cold Brew is a Bae (Big House Beans’ cold brew and coffee grounds), this is definitely not your grandma’s chocolate chip cookie dough.

Our neighbor to the east, Kru from Sacramento, will grace the Chocolate Festival with their unique take on contemporary Japanese cuisine. Chef Billy Ngo, who immigrated to Sacramento in 1981 from Hong Kong with his Chinese-Vietnamese parents, sees Asian cuisine through a sophisticated cultural lens that informs everything from his rule-bending approach to sushi to his omakase-centric service style.

Make Food Memories That Will Last A Lifetime

Remember the first time you heard the crunch of a freshly baked sourdough loaf as you pulled it apart to reveal its steamy, chewy center? Or your first bite into a vine-ripened tomato, dripping with juice and still warm from the sun? Food memories are important. They enhance our connection to the stuff that sustains us and the people who make it—and they last a lifetime. So whether you’re dabbling in chocolate curiosity or well-traveled on your chocolate journey, the International Chocolate Festival is an unforgettable experience you won’t want to miss. Get your tickets now before they’re all gobbled up.