CLOSE We counted down the Detroit Free Press/Metro Detroit Chevy Dealers Best New Restaurants all week. Detroit Free Press

Buy Photo A spread of Senegalese dishes from Maty's African Cuisine in the Old Redford neighborhood of Detroit. (Photo: Mark Kurlyandchik, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

The dining scene around metro Detroit is constantly changing.

This past week, we counted down the Top 10 best new restaurants in the area, including all establishments that opened in the tri-county area during the 2017 calendar year, capped off Friday with our 2018 Restaurant of the Year (scroll down if you want to see what it is!).

Here's a recap of our countdown in quick-hit form. Be sure to check out more of our Restaurant of the Year coverage at freep.com/ROY!

No. 10: River Bistro, Detroit

18456 Grand River, Detroit; 313-777-9311

GENRE: Caribbean-inspired comfort food with chef-y flair

VIBE: Small, spare dining room with two communal tables and brisk carryout window; more romantic chef’s table in back for private events and special dinners

GOOD FOR: Carryout, quick weekday dinner, private dinner party for 10-14

STANDOUT DISHES: Honey-spiced fried chicken, jerk ribs, BBQ guava short rib

NOTE: No liquor license.

Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 9: Prime + Proper, Detroit

1145 Griswold, Detroit. 313-636-3100

GENRE: Luxe, next-generation big-city steakhouse adjacent to a historic urban park

VIBE: Las Vegas-style luxury and showmanship; place to see and be seen

GOOD FOR: High-powered business dinners; celebrations and special occasions; people-watching

STANDOUT DISHES: P+P Louie salad, Kansas City strip steak, peanut butter pavé dessert

Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 8: Livernois Tap, Ferndale

567 Livernois, Ferndale; 248-268-3496

GENRE: European-style beer hall with Axle brews and elevated pub fare

VIBE: Convivial dining room and long bar with ample seating and kid-friendly amenities; large doors that open to seasonal patio and fireplace lend indoor/outdoor feeling in warmer months

GOOD FOR: Weekend brunch with the family, summer nights on the patio, beer drinkers

STANDOUT DISHES: Steak tartare, chicken shawarma wings, McBenedict (brunch only)

Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 7: Maty’s African Cuisine, Detroit

21611 Grand River, Detroit; 313-472-5885

GENRE: Detroit’s only Senegalese restaurant

VIBE: Colorful, homespun dining room with a few booths for dine-in customers

GOOD FOR: Carryout, solo dining, larger groups on weekends

STANDOUT DISHES: Senegalese egg rolls (nems), whole fried and grilled red snapper, chicken yassa

NOTE: The restaurant is halal and has no liquor license. Senegalese juices (baobab, hibiscus, ginger), soft drinks and bottled water available.

Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 6: 168 KTV Bistro, Madison Heights

32415 John R, Madison Heights; 248-616-0168​​​​​​​

GENRE: Karaoke lounge specializing in regional Chinese fare from Sichuan and Dongbei as well as Pan-Asian highlights

VIBE: Kitschy neon-lit dining area with banquet-style seating and ornate private karaoke rooms

GOOD FOR: Small to large parties and celebrations, adventurous eaters, shy singers

STANDOUT DISHES: Stir-fried pea tips, cold mung bean noodle salad, Chongqing spicy grilled fish

NOTE: Kitchen open late (1 a.m. Sun.-Thurs.; 2 a.m. Fri. & Sat.); food is available both in the main dining area without reservations and in the private karaoke rooms.

​​​​​​​Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 5: M Cantina, Dearborn

13214 Michigan, Dearborn; 313-399-9117

GENRE: Stylish “Nuevo Latino” street food with craft nonalcoholic cocktails

VIBE: Cozy neighborhood spot with urban-chic aesthetic featuring exposed brick walls, industrial lighting, open kitchen and dark granite-topped bar

GOOD FOR: Lunch, solo dining at the bar, delicious drinks without the guilt or the hangover

STANDOUT DISHES: Chips and salsa, duck carnitas tacos, seasonal desserts

NOTE: The restaurant is halal and has no liquor license. Fresh juices, smoothies, soft drinks and nonalcoholic cocktails available.

​​​​​​​Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 4: Frame, Hazel Park

23839 John R (inside Joebar), Hazel Park

GENRE: Hidden restaurant-within-a-restaurant for high-profile chef residencies and themed dinners

VIBE: Changes depending on the chef and event, but the exposed-brick room features unique and stylish lighting and often has a wide-open view of the kitchen; mostly communal seating

GOOD FOR: Previewing a chef’s new concept, weekend date night, a night out in Hazel Park

NOTE: Tickets for all Frame dinners must be purchased in advance; no walk-ins.

​​​​​​​Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 3: Voyager, Ferndale

600 Vester, Ferndale; 248-658-4999

GENRE: Creative oyster bar and sustainable seafood restaurant with Southern flair and unique, ever-changing menu

VIBE: Casual, cool and cozy with Wes Anderson-inspired color palette and open kitchen; small dock-like patio outside during warmer months

STANDOUT DISHES: Fresh-shucked oysters, chili crab spaghetti, crispy whitefish sandwich

GOOD FOR: Happy hour at the bar with a friend, double-date dinner and drinks in the dining room, asking about the whitefish sandwich

​​​​​​​Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 2: Lady of the House, Corktown

1426 Bagley, Detroit; 313-818-0218

GENRE: Trendy farm-to-table New American shared plates restaurant with Old World sensibilities

VIBE: Classy but convivial Irish pub-like atmosphere with moody lighting and white-washed walls

STANDOUT DISHES: Parisian ham, pork terrine, golden beet soup

GOOD FOR: Romantic date-night dinner, snacks and wine with a friend at the bar, taking out-of-town visitors

​​​​​​​Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

No. 1: Chef's Table at Foundation Hotel, Detroit

250 W. Larned, Detroit; 313-800-5500

Cuisine: Progressive American fine dining with classic French underpinnings

Format: Ticketed multi-course tasting menu at communal, 12-seat chef’s table in intimate dining room above the Apparatus Room; some cooking is done in front of you and the chef introduces each dish in rich detail

Prices: $175 for food and service, $95 for optional wine pairing. (The experience is worth the price tag for a special evening to experience Thomas Lents’ cooking in this unique setting.)

Hours: Single 6 p.m. seatings Fridays and Saturdays

Special features: Valet parking $10

Reservations: Tickets for dinner must be purchased in advance at exploretock.com/chefstable

Additional info: There is no set dress code, but diners tend to dress up.

​​​​​​​Read more from Freep restaurant critic Mark Kurlyandchik.

Read or Share this story: http://on.freep.com/2ocNPCf