Buy Photo Rising gas prices could impact consumer vehicle purchases. (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Consumers are finding it harder to buy big-ticket vehicles.

A boost in interest rates and a spike in gasoline prices are “chipping away at America’s wallet,” said Charles Chesbrough, senior economist with Cox Automotive in Ann Arbor.

As a result, industry experts expect new vehicle sales in May to be flat to slightly lower than the year-ago period.

May "will be a bad month overall based on what dealers tell us,” said Jeremy Alicandri, director at New York-area consulting firm Maryann Keller & Associates.

The national average gas price is $2.97, according to AAA. That’s up from $2.37 a year earlier. The current U.S. prime interest rate is 4.75 percent, up from 4 percent in May 2017, according to FedPrimeRate.com.

Those higher costs are cooling demand for pickup trucks. Lower consumer incentives are also making already-expensive vehicles even more unattainable for most consumers, Alicandri said.

However, New Jersey-area dealer Steve Kalafer said overall his sales in May held up. He estimates truck sales will slip slightly compared with a year earlier, but considering what could have been, he foresees May shaping up to be a decent sales month.

That’s because a May 2 fire at a parts factory in small-town Michigan rippled through the North American auto industry, temporarily halting some production at General Motors, Fiat Chrysler and Mercedes. But it hit Ford hardest, forcing the Dearborn-based automaker to suspend production of its biggest-selling vehicle, the F-150 pickup.

The first Ford F-150 truck built after an eight-day shutdown rolls off the line on May 18, 2018, at Dearborn Truck Plant. The assembly line restarted after a supplier fire. (Photo: Ford Motor Co.)

“Ford, to their credit, got around it very quickly, not only in conveying with pretty good certainty that although there might be a short-term interruption (and) they could handle it in the long term,” said Kalafer, founding chairman of the Flemington Car and Truck Country Family of Brands, in Flemington, N.J.

Kalafer sells 16 brands including Ford, Chevrolet, GMC and Dodge pickups. “We were able to communicate that in the showroom and we did have an adequate supply of F-150s in stock," he said.

Read more:

The consumers who wanted the F-150 were willing to wait for it, Kalafer said.

“What we didn’t see was a consumer say, ‘I can’t get my F-150 today or in two weeks so I’m going to buy a Chevrolet or GMC,’” Kalafer said. “There is more loyalty, at least in our experience, with an F-150 purchaser, without question.”

And despite rising gas prices, he has not heard consumers express a level of "fear" that would drive them to shift their purchase preference to automobiles.

But he warns, “nirvana is over” for automakers who produced high volumes of vehicles and sold them all. Going forward, Kalafer said automakers will either have to slow production to match sputtering demand or offer more consumer rebates.

Still, the timing of Memorial Day weekend this year might help support new car sales, said Cox’s Chesbrough. There are four selling days after the weekend compared with two last year.

Still, the results will likely be “a bit of a mixed bag” with new vehicle sales up by about 3 percent, or 50,000 vehicles, amid a slower sales pace, Chesbrough said.

Since August 2017, U.S. new vehicle sales have been at a pace of about 17 million units per year, he said.

“This is the first month we expect to dip below that and the question is: Is this a one-off?” said Chesbrough. “We are expecting the year to start to slow in the second half. That’s not to say it’s not a robust vehicle market; anything north of 16 million is still good.”

But, he said, rising interest rates and more vehicles coming off lease landing on used-car lots will challenge new-car sales.

“The pickup truck market, we still expect to remain strong,” said Chesbrough. “Rising gas prices will be a challenge, but the fuel efficiency on these trucks is good. And we’ve got some new product out there, the new Dodge Ram is out there and the housing market is quite strong, so there’s demand for the vehicle."

But, Chesbrough and others say if interest rates climb significantly higher, new car sales will nosedive.

“I’ve been doing this for 42 years, I’ve been through five recessions and seven gas crunches. This is called the business cycle,” said dealer Kalafer. “Am I still optimistic about new car sales if gas prices go up another buck and interest rates go up another 2 points? Not at all."

Contact Jamie LaReau at jlareau@freepress.com or 313-222-2149.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LFuQem