honda

AutoNews Now: At Ford, tales of fire, frustration and 'reinventing' the car May 10 At Ford, tales of fire, frustration and 'reinventing' the car; Rolls-Royce's $340K SUV; Aston: Lagonda electric SUV in 2021; Tesla factory as collateral?; Honda's $199 EV lease.



HONDA: Slow sales for several key vehicles May 1 Author: Vince Bond Jr. American Honda's U.S. sales fell 9.2 percent in April due to the slower performance of key models such as the Accord, Civic and CR-V.



Japan brands' EVs for China appear strikingly familiar April 30 Author: Hans Greimel If the first wave of Japan-brand electric vehicles for China looks familiar, it should. Toyota, Nissan and Honda are simply rolling out EV versions of existing nameplates.



Honda, Mazda issue profit warnings as yen rise clouds outlook April 27 Honda and Mazda issued profit warnings for the current financial year on worries a stronger yen would erode their operating earnings, wiping out the impact of record high global vehicle sales.



Honda sweetens Accord leases, a bit April 23 Author: Vince Bond Jr. The discounted lease deal puts the Accord within striking distance of the Camry in strong lease markets such as California, Ohio and Florida.



AutoNews Now: Will lease deal give new Accord a boost? April 23 Will lease deal give Accord a boost?; Court rules against delaying CAFE penalty hike; Ford's 2-cylinder feat; Peek at Cadillac XT6, Mercedes-Maybach SUV; When Kanye tweeted Elon.



China to scrap foreign ownership caps on automakers by 2022 April 17 The move is a major policy shift that will open the market wider to automakers such as Nissan and Tesla. It comes amid a trade standoff between Washington and Beijing, and signals the end of a 1994 rule in the biggest auto market that limits foreign automakers to a 50 percent share of any local venture.



NHTSA seeks information on asphyxiation death in Honda Odyssey April 13 NHTSA has reached out to local authorities and Honda to learn more about the death of a Ohio high school student who died of asphyxiation after getting trapped in a Honda Odyssey minivan.



Honda gets scrappy through Silicon Valley April 7 Author: Naoto Okamura To return to its scrappy roots, Honda is looking outside for new technologies in connectivity, robotics and automated driving.



VW bets on Brazil rebound with SUV; Honda remains cautious April 4 Volkswagen AG plans to produce its first SUV in Brazil, it said on Wednesday, betting on a rebound in Latin America's largest market despite signs of caution from rivals such as Honda.



Sales rise 6.4% as spring season starts with a bang April 3 Author: David Phillips U.S. light-vehicle deliveries, behind higher discounts and fleet shipments, a surge in light-truck demand and an extra weekend of sales, rose 6.4 percent in March, topping expectations as the critical spring-selling season started off with a bang.

