CLEVELAND, Ohio - Memorial Day weekend always triggers powerful memories of my friend Morris T. Legette, who died three years ago at the age of 57. Morris cherished and celebrated the holiday more fervently than anyone I know.

An Army veteran, Morris established a tradition of inviting a couple dozen people to his house in Maple Heights for a Memorial Day cookout. Most of the invitees were military veterans. Somehow, I managed to break into this circle of close friends, despite a lack of veteran status.

Three non-negotiable house rules were in effect at all of his cookouts.

1) Morris supplied all of the food. He also did all of the cooking and grilling.

2) Guests were told to contribute a six-pack of beer or a bag of ice to the gathering. Morris kept a fully stocked bar for those inclined to spirit.

3) A reverential prayer of thanks would be observed by all of the assembled.

Before the start of a seemingly endless meal, Morris would gather us in a circle in his driveway and instruct us to hold hands. The circle formed next to a 20-foot flagpole that bore one of the largest American flags I've ever seen on a residential property. The flag flew over all of us.

Morris, who usually had a mischievous twinkle in his eyes, would then give a somber 30-second speech about respect and appreciation for the military sacrifices that ensure the freedoms we currently enjoy. He would follow his sermonette by volunteering one of his guests to say a prayer of thankfulness for the food, friendships and the holiday that brought us together.

During this part of the cookout, I would always focus on the United States flag that was the centerpiece of my friend's front yard. I would reflect on the reality that similar gatherings were happening all over the nation.

It was a comforting thought. At least for a day, untold numbers of Americans were again uniting under the most powerful symbol we have to remind us that we must remain one nation indivisible.

America is in the midst of a divisive and potentially dangerous stretch of its evolution. We currently feel more polarized as a people than we have for a couple of generations. The essence of what it means to be a "good American" is under assault in strange and unexpected ways.

Sectarian violence rampant in other parts of the world seems to percolate below the surface here at home. Shared symbols and passions that once served to unify now seem under constant assault. Even the NFL has become a strange litmus test on what it means to be a loyal American.

With its recently issued policy that players and league personnel must "stand and show respect for the flag and national anthem" or face fines, the league, like the nation, seems divided on a core founding value: Freedom of speech.

President Donald Trump hasn't been shy about stoking a smoldering fire. Speaking of the NFL's new stand-at-attention flag policy, Trump said the following: "I think that's good. [...] You have to stand proudly for the national anthem or you shouldn't be playing, you shouldn't be there. Maybe you shouldn't be in the country.''

I believe that the time for kneeling during the anthem is over. The necessary point has been made, and the aggressive policing of African-American males has never been under greater scrutiny.

However, for a president to suggest that American citizens should be placed in possible jeopardy of forfeiting their citizenship because they refuse to stand for the anthem is heresy. Trump's statement is a stunning and ignorant assault on the principles of liberty for which so many people sacrificed their lives.

America is a great nation, which remains a work in progress. As we go through rough stretches, we must deliberately search for strength from the shared national culture and symbols that connect us. Freedom through sacrifice is a unifying theme we must never forget.

I will miss my friend Morris this Memorial Day weekend, and his grand American flag. I relish the memory of his love for friends and the military. Mostly, I celebrate his unwavering hope for the United States of America.