CLOSE Program facilitator Karen Sturdivant speaks about Averill New Tech Elementary's Pretty Brown Girl Club on Wednesday, April 25, 2018, in Lansing. Nick King, Lansing State Journal

Pretty Brown Girl Club members line up as they prepare for their year of success celebration on Wednesday, April 25, 2018, at Averill New Tech Elementary in Lansing. The club is dedicated to boosting the self-esteem of young women of color. (Photo: Nick King/Lansing State Journal)

LANSING - Before Emoni Monger joined the new club at her school this fall, she thought about growing up to be a veterinarian.

Now, the nine-year-old Averill Elementary student said she’s not content just to care for animals. She wants to own her own clinic. And to work as a pediatrician, but onlypart-time, she explained.

Monger was one of half a dozen students recognized during the Pretty Brown Girl Club’s end-of-year celebration Wednesday afternoon. The club aims to inspire young woman to see themselves as beautiful, regardless of skin tone, facial features or anything else that doesn’t fit mass-marketed standards of beauty.

It’s also about building self-esteem, enshrining healthy habits and planting the first seeds of career aspirations.

“Her self-esteem has skyrocketed through the roof,” Monique Monger, Emoni’s mother, said. “I’m overjoyed and blessed for her to feel like she can do anything.”

Seeing her daughter’s progress and enthusiasm for sharing the club’s lessons with her younger female relatives had her which she'd had a similar club when she was a Lansing student.

Pretty Brown Girl is the brainchild of Sheri Crawley, who along with her husband, Corey, relocated to Detroit from Chicago in 2010. She was concerned that her daughters weren’t seeing women who shared their features being represented as beautiful.

Their daughter Laila asked Crawley to buy her the shampoo that she thought would give her the same long blonde hair as her classmates. During a birthday party at a doll store, neither of Crawley’s daughters nor their friends picked out dolls that looked like them. When Crawley heard her husband waking up their daughters by saying “Good morning pretty brown girls,” it all clicked.

Now, the organization boasts clubs at more than 100 schools across the country, in addition to selling branded T-shirts and dolls.

Each student in the club gave a speech Wednesday during the closing celebration. Wearing fancy dresses and their best formal shoes, they talked about everything from Maya Angelou to making healthy food decisions. A few stood on a white milk crate in order to reach the podium’s microphone.

Halfway through the event, Averill Principal Kyron Harvell stood up from his seat on the stage and asked the students whether they wanted to go to college. He then pulled his wallet out, handing each of the girls $100 as a start to their college funds.

Karen Sturdivant, who pushed to bring Pretty Brown Girl to Averill, drew parents' attention to different projects and trips the group was involved in during the school year. A bulletin board in the classroom displayed letters the students wrote to Tyler Perry, thanking him for his representation of diverse women in his films and asking him to visit Lansing. They got a letter and a signed photograph in response.

Sturdivant said she found Pretty Brown Girl when searching for a way to bring cultural lessons into Averill. A graduate of East Lansing High School, she was one of only a few black students there in the late 1970s.

Being that Pretty Brown Girl has lessons and a curriculum, it wasn’t always easy to pique students' interest. It required her “to learn how to rearrange things to make it fun and meaningful," she said.

Crawley, who made the trip out to Lansing from her home in Detroit to speak at the event, told students to embrace life’s opportunities and to not let others limit their ambitions.

“Lean into what life is showing you.”

Contact RJ Wolcott at (517) 377-1026 or rwolcott@lsj.com. Follow him on Twitter @wolcottr.

Read or Share this story: https://on.lsj.com/2Fkz5aR