Normally, you wouldn’t have any problem with the subfloor rotting under carpeting in most rooms of the house. If the carpeting extends in front of an exterior door with a leaking doorjamb, however, you might find the subfloor has soft spots where it has begun to rot. Carpeted bathrooms and kitchens are other rooms that are prone to developing wood rot under the carpet. No matter what causes the water damage, you need to fix cause of the leak. Then you can repair the subfloor and reinstall the existing carpeting.

1 Pull up the carpet from its tack strip starting at a corner near the damaged subfloor. Slide a screwdriver tip into the corner to pry up the carpeting. Once you can get a grip on the carpet, pull it up and off its tack strips far enough along both walls to expose the damaged subfloor. Fold the carpeting back onto itself so it is out of your way.

2 Pry up the exposed tack strips with a pry bar. Handle them with care because the tacks are sharp.

3 Pull the carpet padding back out of the way as well. Pull out staples holding the carpet pad to the floor with a pair of pliers. If it shows signs of water damage, mold or mildew, cut off the bad section with a utility knife. If the pad has no damage, fold it back over the carpeting.

4 Examine the exposed subfloor to determine how much you need to remove. Plan to replace any plywood subfloor material that appears to be soft, hollow or shows obvious signs of wood rot.

5 Go into the basement or crawl space, if possible, to check for any electrical lines or plumbing that may interfere with the area of subfloor that you need to cut away. Take note of any such lines and plan to avoid them.

6 Locate floor joists under the subfloor with a stud finder and mark their location. Mark the outer perimeter of the damaged area with a chalk line snapped along the center of the joists. Use a framing square to help you make the chalk line at right angles to the lines along the joists.

7 Remove the screws holding the damaged section of subfloor in place. Check the thickness of the subfloor by pulling up a heating or cooling vent to expose a cross section view of the subfloor. Set a circular saw to cut to that depth.

8 Cut along the chalk line with the circular saw. Pry up the damaged subfloor with a pry bar.

9 Measure and cut a piece of plywood to fit into the opening. The plywood should be the same thickness as the original subflooring. Run a bead of carpenter’s adhesive under the outside edge of the plywood. Set the patch in place. Attach the plywood with screws long enough to penetrate through the plywood and at least 1 inch into the joists.

10 Lay the padding back into position. If you are replacing a damaged section, cut the new padding to fit the opening with a utility knife. Attach the padding with staples from a staple tacker.

11 Reattach a tack strip 1 inch from the wall using the nails attached to it. Set the strip so the tack tips face toward the wall. Trim the padding so it doesn’t extend over the tacks.

12 Lay the carpet back in place. Pull the corner tight and push it over the tack strip’s tips. Pull the sides up and over the tack strip as well.

13 Set a carpet knee kicker so its teeth are about 1 inch from the corner of the carpet. Kick the opposite end of the device with your knee. As you do so, slightly lift the carpet off the tacks temporarily and set it back down so the carpet is tighter. Reset the carpet along both walls in this manner. You may need to repeat this step with the knee kicker to get it to stretch the carpet back into its original position.

14 Tuck stray strands of carpet under the shoe molding or quarter round trim with a carpet stair tool.

Things You Will Need Screwdriver

Pry bar

Pliers

Utility knife

Stud finder

Chalk line

Framing square

Screwdriver

Tape measure

Circular saw

Plywood

Carpenter’s adhesive

Screws

Staples

Staple tacker

Hammer

Carpet knee kicker

Carpet stair tool

Tip You can rent a knee kicker and stair tool at a home improvement store.

Warning Wear a dust mask or respirator when you cut away the old subfloor.

About the Author Denise Brown is an education professional who wanted to try something different. Two years and more than 500 articles later, she's enjoying her freelance writing experience for online resources such as Work.com and other online information sites. Brown holds a master's degree in history education from Truman State University.