By StoryStudio

Verónica Torralba Lozano waited 20 years to pursue her MBA. Not by choice. By life.

She wanted to pursue an advanced degree years ago, but like many of us, the combination of a demanding full-time job and raising her son (for many years as a single mom) left little time for much else.

Still, she never gave up. “Once my son started planning for college, that’s when I said, ‘It’s my turn,'” Lozano says.

Now vice president, internal consulting and management development with AIG, Lozano made the most of her slightly freed-up schedule by enrolling in Executive MBA Americas program in the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

Lozano could have chosen any number of high-caliber, Texas-based MBA programs. Instead, she chose the Executive MBA Americas program, offered by Cornell University in Ithaca, New York.

As part of the program, students attend classes every other weekend in “boardrooms” in select cities—including Houston—across the United States, Mexico, Canada and South America. Students also attend three seven- to 15-day sessions on the Cornell University and Queen’s University campuses.

“I wanted to be in a highly selective cohort of executives,” Lozano says. “Getting into Cornell allowed me to attend an Ivy League school in Houston, in a cohort with other up-and-coming professionals.”

Mustafa Fatakdawala, a senior manager in product management at GE Digital, chose the Executive MBA Americas program in part because of the schedule, which he was able to fit around a busy career and personal life. “I can’t take Fridays off,” he says. “Every other weekend worked for my schedule. And meeting with a cohort of 160 students, plus faculty, during the sessions at Cornell, you get to network with people on the leading edge of business and technology.”

The Cornell boardroom

Rather than meet in a typical classroom or online, students from each city meet in local “boardrooms.” Instructors teach live from Cornell’s on-campus studios. Through real-time, interactive videoconferencing, students from each boardroom see and interact with instructors as well as with one another.

“I was able to raise my hand and interact with the professor,” says Lozano. “I could respond to a comment a student in Canada made. The richness of connecting with people from Canada, from other U.S. cities and from Latin America really enriched conversations.”

In a traditional classroom, you mostly see the backs of other students’ heads. Not in the boardrooms. “You’re looking right at them,” says Fatakdawala. “The camera engages and zooms in, so you’re talking face-to-face.”

World-class faculty

The faculty who teach in the program—all world-class business experts and practitioners—speaks to Cornell’s commitment to developing top-quality programs. It’s one of the main reasons Fatakdawala chose the Executive MBA Americas program.

“The faculty is what matters most to me in terms of a business program,” he says. “There are thousands of books you could read. Having their guidance and perspective was key.”

Lozano, who gained most of her prior business knowledge on the job, agrees. “Getting the quantitative feedback was important to me,” she says. “We had top-notch professors teaching finance, accounting, valuation of companies…they challenged us constantly and we had to articulate back to them through papers and case studies.”

Class sessions take place every other weekend on Saturdays and Sundays. In between classes, and while balancing personal and professional responsibilities, students work together in study teams on assignments and deliverables. Lozano and Fatakdawala both recall working on assignments well past midnight. That’s why they say it’s important to have support both at home and at work.

“My husband was my biggest cheerleader,” says Lozano. “He gave me his full support. And my boss was incredibly supportive. If I stayed up until three a.m. working on a paper, I could work flexible hours.”

“You’ve got to plan the time,” says Fatakdawala. “But you get a benefit from the amount of work you put in.”

When Lozano walks across the stage in May to accept her degree, and when Fatakdawala does the same in May 2019, they’ll walk away not only with new skills they can use right away, but also 160 new colleagues and friends.

Both already notice positive changes in the workplace. Lozano’s manager is supporting her rise to senior or executive VP. “She knows I’m ready for a new opportunity, and she’s actively supporting me in identifying the next step in my career,” she says.

Fatakdawala says because he’s told his superiors about his MBA studies, they know he’s committed to an upward trajectory, and they continue to increase his responsibilities.

“Support from management has been incredible,” he says. “My manager knows what the demand is, and it gives him confidence in me. It also gives me confidence, because I can take what I’ve learned and apply it directly.”

Are you ready to propel your career forward with an MBA? Visit the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management website today to learn more and apply.