CLOSE SportsPulse: USA TODAY Sports' Martin Rogers travels to Las Vegas to see just how much the Golden Knights' improbable Stanley Cup run really means to the Vegas faithful. USA TODAY Sports

Vegas Golden Knights left wing Tomas Nosek celebrates a goal in the third period during Game 1 of the Stanley Cup finals at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas on Monday, May 28, 2018. (Photo: Steve Marcus, Las Vegas Sun via AP)

LAS VEGAS — The NHL resume of Tomas Nosek featured 17 mostly anonymous games as a member of the Detroit Red Wings when the Golden Knights plucked him in June’s NHL expansion draft.

Eight days before the draft, Nosek notched three assists to help Grand Rapids defeat Syracuse and win the AHL’s Calder Cup. He hoped that showing would help him stick with the Wings to start the 2017-18 season.

Instead, he went to Vegas, anchored the fourth line in a magical Golden Knights season and made the biggest splash of his career by scoring the game-winning goal in Game 1 of the Stanley Cup finals.

More: Vegas Golden Knights: How these long shots reached Stanley Cup finals

Nosek couldn't keep up with the texts on his cell phone after netting two goals to put Vegas three wins from a Stanley Cup in its expansion year.

“Lots of messages,” Nosek said. “Over 100 for sure. I didn’t open anything yet. I wanted to go to sleep so I didn’t open everything yet. That’s today’s job.”

Few expected the Golden Knights to select Nosek, who enjoyed no guarantee of making the Wings roster if he stayed in Detroit. He did not even hold a safe spot in the Vegas lineup at the start of training camp.

Once he made the team, Nosek needed little time to attract attention. He netted the first goal less than three minutes into the Golden Knights’ home opener.

Selected in part because the expansion Golden Knights could give the 25-year-old plenty of time to develop, Nosek's hard-charging style landed him on the fourth line and the penalty-kill unit. He earned about 12 minutes per game in coach Gerard Gallant’s system, where all 20 players see extended ice time.

More: Ryan Reaves goes from Sidney Crosby's protector to Golden Knights' big-game scorer

The mission for Nosek, Ryan Reaves and Pierre-Edouard Bellemare reads like most fourth lines: skate hard and try to make something happen.

“We just try to create some chaos in front of the net, go hard to the net, get some forecheck going,” Nosek said. “That’s our role and it was good last night.”

Nosek said Vegas played a bit nervous at the start Monday, but settled in by the second period. He credited his experience in Grand Rapids’ run to the Calder Cup with teaching him how to manage his emotions in big moments.

“That finals last year helped me a little bit to get some experience in these matches,” Nosek said. “It’s a lot of fun obviously to be in the finals and play for the Stanley Cup.”

Nosek totaled 10 goals and 12 assists in 19 playoff games for Grand Rapids last year. Wings general manager Ken Holland noticed the Czech-born forward during the Griffins' run but still left him exposed, perhaps expecting Vegas to bite on goalie Petr Mrazek or a more established winger.

More: Vegas expansion choice of Tomas Nosek a bad outcome for Red Wings

“We like Nosek, he can play power play, penalty kill, has a lot of different dimensions,” Holland told the Free Press in May 2017.

In 67 regular-season games with Vegas, Nosek scored seven goals and had eight assists. He missed 12 games in the middle of the season with an upper-body injury suffered Jan. 16 against Nashville.

Like the rest of Nosek’s career, this season has not been a straight-line ascent. Nosek managed just two points in the 21 games prior to the injury, and Vegas made him a healthy scratch in three earlier playoff games.

Inserted back into the lineup for Game 4 in Winnipeg, Nosek started what is now a three-game point streak heading into Wednesday night's Game 2 in Las Vegas. His line accounted for all three third-period goals as Vegas erased a Capitals lead to move to 7-1 on home ice in the playoffs.

“It feels great at the moment, but today is another day and tomorrow is another game,” Nosek said. “We still need three more wins to get it done. That’s what we focus on. It doesn’t matter who scores the goal or who leads the way.”

Perspective comes easily for Nosek after spending three seasons bouncing between Grand Rapids and Detroit, hoping for a full-time chance. He found it in Vegas and played hero for a night Monday.

“It’s the Stanley Cup Final and you don’t get a chance to play in it every day,” Nosek said. “When you score a goal to win a game, it’s perfect.”