By StoryStudio

On the surface, the current opioid epidemic appears to be driven by factors well know the hospitals – mental health, addiction, and crisis; however, this epidemic is in fact much different than previous opioid crises. The current crisis is being exacerbated by a profound increase in social inequity – said differently, if we are going to meaningfully solve the current opioid crisis, we as a nation, are going to have to go deeper beyond new treatment programs to close the prevention gap.

Over the last decade our country has lost one million people to drug overdoses, alcohol-related deaths, and suicide. Each year approximately 64,000 Americans die from drug overdose alone. If these trend continues, data suggest that we could see a 100% increase in deaths 2025.

Despite these alarming numbers, efforts to address the problem, including mental health and substance use work, have been weak at best. The challenge that health systems will face is how to simultaneously begin to address prevention while working on treatment.

With this as our backdrop, Well Being Trust, a national foundation dedicated to advancing mental, social and spiritual health, has partnered with Trust for America’s Health to proposes a comprehensive and systemic approach to address these issues.

“Simply decreasing the supply of opioids without decreasing the demand for them leads people to turn to other ways to maintain their addiction, control their pain, or simply cope with life,” says Benjamin F. Miller, PsyD, chief strategy officer for Well Being Trust.”We truly need a National Resilience Strategy,” he says.

In the now highly recognized report “Pain in the Nation,” Well Being Trust and TFAH outline the trends, propose solutions, and most importantly, build off the evidence to support the creation of a National Resilience Strategy.

“The 16 percent of Americans who have mental health disorders receive over half of all opioids prescribed in the United States,” says Arpan Waghray, MD, chief medical officer for Well Being Trust. “Improving pain management among this population is critical to reduce national dependency on opioids.”

And in fact, this is one of the cornerstones as outlined in Pain in the Nation alongside ways we can better prioritize prevention and integrate mental health and substance use services.

Pain and the brain

Chronic pain and depression don’t just mutually coexist, Waghray explains. They feed on each other. Pain wears a person down and affects his or her mood. On the flipside, depression can cause physical symptoms, such as back pain and headaches.

“When depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress syndrome go untreated in chronic pain patients, it significantly impairs their quality of life,” says Waghray. “Patients with pain may then use opioids for anxiolytic [anxiety-relieving] or reward effects, which leads to escalating doses in an attempt to treat pain. Patients fall deeper into substance abuse, where chronic pain continues to act as an ongoing stimulus.”

A comprehensive approach to pain management

The National Institute on Drug Abuse reports that 21 to 29 percent of patients prescribed opioids for chronic pain misuse them. Between 8 and 12 percent of individuals who use prescription opioids develop an opioid use disorder.

“We need to have more thoughtful approaches to how we treat pain,” says Miller. “How can better support teams who can bring a much more thoughtful and systemic approach to help the patients and their families? The answer is through better mental health and substance use integration.”

Fortunately, health systems are gradually recognizing the need for a more integrated approach to pain management. Their renewed interest in mental health echoes a 2016 report from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which states, “supported scientific evidence indicates that closer integration of substance use–related services in mainstream health-care systems will have value to both systems.”

Although prescription pain medications do ease suffering for many people with acute and chronic conditions, the root cause of much opioid and other substance abuse often has nothing to do with pain caused by injury or surgery. People use drugs and alcohol to cope with emotional pain, according to Miller. A person who is out of work, has suffered a deep emotional trauma, has unstable housing or has an untreated mental health condition may turn to substances to muffle the pain.

Providence St. Joseph Health, a not-for-profit health-care system that operates in five states, including California, Washington and Oregon, takes a methodical, “whole person” approach to substance abuse disorder and suicide risk. It screens for anxiety, stress, depression and substance misuse disorders while working to understand the social determinants underlying these issues.

“We use a team approach to better understand the factors contributing to chronic pain,” says Waghray, who is also the telepsychiatry medical director for Providence Health. “Our goal is to help people better understand and manage pain by using medication as well as other non-pharmacological approaches, including exercise, physical and occupational therapy, psychological counseling, relaxation training and nursing education.”

By looking at all sides of pain, from physical pain to any underlying mental or emotional triggers, doctors can help patients improve their quality of life.

“Chronic pain can affect people’s ability to work, to be active with family and friends and to participate in simple activities that are important to them,” says Waghray. “We want to address the underlying cause and focus on prevention to help people realize their fullest potential of health and well-being.”

The practical steps Providence St. Joseph takes include improving pain assessment and management at the primary care level and coordinating that care with behavioral health specialists. The health system limits prescribed opioids for routine surgeries to prevent high-risk patients from developing addiction issues.

“Health systems have a central role to play in creating stronger, clearer policies and protocols when it comes to the treatment of pain and the use of narcotics,” says Marshall Moncrief, director of St. Joseph Hoag Chemical Dependency Recovery Center. “We collectively also have a role to play in remembering that these very powerful medications provide compassionate relief to many, many people that would otherwise be left to endure unimaginable pain.”

These policies, combined with integrated mental and physical health care and a focus on prevention, are three parts of a multifaceted National Resilience Strategy proposed by Well Being Trust.

“We must fundamentally see the issues around opioids as those that should be tackled with a public health lens and thoughtfully addressed through the social context,” says Miller. “We should meet people where they are and design meaningful solutions that give them what they most need to achieve the goals they have for themselves. This may not feel like an easy program to adopt of overnight solution, per se, but it is much more of a long-lasting approach to help solve a much bigger problem we have in our country.”