FAIRFAX, Va. –-(Ammoland.com)- In response to the NRA and Wayne LaPierre's October 27, 2015 video on “How to Stop Violent Crime,” The Huffington Post published an article titled “NRA Repeats Same Old Misleading, Racist Tropes in New Anti-Clinton Video.”

In this hit piece masquerading as journalism, the author — who, despite calling himself “Mike the Gun Guy” is about as much a gun guy as Rachel Dolezal is a black woman — accuses the NRA of being racist. Check out the clip in question.

The author writes: “The picture of ‘Darius Brown' is actually a picture of Jamal Streeter, one of three young men charged in the murder of a 13-year-old teenager named Darius Brown. Oh well, if every young man of color is either a gangbanger or a thug, how hard is it to get them all mixed up?”

Here's the problem with his claim though.

Darius Brown D-A-R-I-U-S — this kid — was a 13-year-old killed by Jamal Streeter and two other guys while playing basketball. However, De'Eris Brown D-E-‘-E-R-I-S — the person pictured in the Wayne video — is the person who killed 9-year-old Jamyla Bolden while she was doing her homework.

Ironically, the only person confusing every black person for looking the same is Mike “The Gun Guy” Dolezal and The Huffington Post, because in their childish attempt to expose the NRA's supposed racism, they inadvertently showed their covert bigotry and lack of Google skills by confusing Jamal Streeter and De'Eris Brown.

Look, I'm so tired of these anti-gun mainstream media publications, personalities and politicians exploiting the racial sensitivities of black people in this country. Every two seconds the media is pressing their thumb into the open wound of our racial past in order to manipulate our emotions so they can maintain their perceived political plantation on the black opinion on every issue in this country.

This journalistic charlatan couldn't take an extra three seconds to parse out which De'Eris Brown the NRA was talking about before swan-diving into his fake-ass white savior costume in a pathetic attempt to manipulate black people away from the gun-rights issue.

They do this constantly and I'm sick of it. I can’t even watch an impartial presidential debate so that I can make an intelligent, balanced decision about who to vote for, without liberal-leaning self- righteous moderators doing everything in their power to turn the GOP debate into a circus, while giving Democratic candidates the space and time to tell us their thoughts on issues unopposed.

You're supposed to be journalists, not political activists or social media celebrities. You're supposed to be giving me objective facts so I can make informed decisions about issues in this country whether they lean left, right or ride on jackasses or dumb-ass elephants. I don't care about your opinion — give me balanced facts so I can develop my own.

This article, Mike the fake-ass gun guy and The Huffington Post are a joke. Not the, “hahaha that's a really funny joke,” but the, “I can't believe this is what passes for real journalism, sad clown joke.”

I am not an animal, I am not a child, I'm a free American who uses reason and logic to develop informed opinions. I don't need you to pull the race card on my behalf. I've legitimately pulled mine many times without your help, so do me a favor and miss me with the fake outrage, because I don't believe you, you need more people and besides, you're engaging in the exact same racist behavior you're accusing someone else of doing. And this type of hypocrisy is getting real old real fast.

See related : “Deadbeat Mike Weisser, Ware Gun Shop, Stiffs The Second Amendment”

About Colion Noir

The enigmatic Internet sensation never holds back or stays between the narrow lines of political correctness. As a NRA News Commentator and the host of NOIR, his mission is to spread the facts about guns and hopefully change some minds. The practicing attorney, urban enthusiast and new face of gun culture didn't pick up a firearm until later in life, and wasn't pro-gun until the day he went to a range. “It was an eye-opener,” he said. The reality behind a firearm is, “It doesn't have a soul, it isn't evil, it's just an inanimate object.”

About: Established in 1871, the National Rifle Association is America's oldest civil rights and sportsmen's group. Nearly five million members strong, NRA continues to uphold the Second Amendment and remains the nation's leader in firearm education and training for law-abiding gun owners, law enforcement and the armed services.Visit: www.nra.org