hyundai

Kia Motors America names Michael Cole as COO May 29 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Kia Motors America has handed the COO reins to Michael Cole, who manned the same position for its European operation since November 2012.



Hyundai plans $388 million expansion at Alabama engine plant May 29 Hyundai plans to invest $388 million to expand and upgrade its engine manufacturing operations in Alabama, creating 50 new jobs.



Hyundai succumbs to pressure, scraps $8.8 billion revamp May 21 Hyundai Motor Group has shelved a restructuring plan that would have given the son of its aging chairman more control of the conglomerate.



Hyundai overhaul plan gets more opposition May 15 Two influential proxy advisers joined Elliott Management in opposing a nearly $9 billion deal between two Hyundai Motor Group units.



First Shift: Marchionne chided PR chief for denying diesel cheating May 15 Marchionne chided PR chief for denying diesel cheating; Tesla driver: Autopilot on during crash; Appeal of smaller auto shows; Kia's diesel mild hybrid; NBA players take Waymo ride.



The long and painful birth of a brand May 14 Author: Hans Greimel As thorny as Genesis' retail rework has been, the U.S. dealer showdown is just one of many trials testing global brand chief Manfred Fitzgerald as he births a luxury brand. Zoom out to the global scale, and Genesis is clearly a work in progress on other measures, too.



Inside Hyundai heir's plan to fend off activist investor's attack May 11 With one of the most tenacious activist investors breathing down his neck, Hyundai's crown prince is preparing to defend his family's dominance of the world's fifth-largest automotive empire.



Genesis corrects its retail course May 7 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Is Hyundai’s Genesis a make or a “model?” The question is at the heart of the lingering confusion surrounding the luxury brand’s retail strategy.



Hyundai dealers must ask: Can they believe in Genesis? May 7 Given the history we've cataloged, we'd caution them to consider their options very carefully.



AutoNews Now: Jeep, VW rise in a down month for U.S. sales May 1 Jeep, VW rise in a down month for U.S. sales; Hyundai to offer Genesis to all its U.S. dealers; Shakeup at Ford-dealer JV; 17 states suing EPA over plan to scrap emissions targets.

