By StoryStudio

Just as no two skiers or snowboarders ski or ride exactly alike, no two winter destinations look identical. The same can be said for the mountains themselves; some set up steeps like bowling pins while others lay out a place setting of bowls. For years we took whatever our home destination had to offer, shaping our day to fit the hill. Those days are gone—the single trail map has turned into an atlas. The Ikon Pass invites us to reimagine our itineraries. From Quebec to California, terrain parks to groomers, the smorgasbord has arrived.

With 26 destinations to plot from, Ikon Pass holders need to bring a mighty big bucket for storing their list. From Stratton to Steamboat to Squaw Valley Alpine Meadows, AltaSnowbird to Sugarloaf to Aspen Snowmass, the Ikon Pass lives up to its name by offering access to a who’s who of winter destinations across the continent. Here’s a look at how you can carve your winter odyssey from over 63,000 acres of unique terrain.

Squaw Valley Alpine Meadows is known for big bowls and big air, yet the host mountain of the 1960 Olympic Winter Games offers equal measures of family and beginner’s options. Kids can follow up a day in the highly regarded ski school with a mini snowmobile adventure, snow tubing and ice skating on top of the world. There’s even an onsite craft studio. Squaw Valley Alpine Meadows has also pioneered progressive terrain parks, recognizing that, as with the hundreds of runs, park features should also offer assorted sizes and ability levels.

Speaking of parks, ever wonder why so many Olympic aerial medalists come from Quebec? It’s the crazy good snow parks. Tremblant offers more than 50 features in the three parks across the mountain, an excellent succession for the beginner to sample or for the well-seasoned shredder looking to go big. West Virginia’s Snowshoe tapped into the terrain park trend early on, and today the five slope side areas treat everyone, from newbies to pros, with dozens of rails, jumps, and other features.

Every destination has seriously ramped up its family offerings in the past few years, whether dog sledding followed by “Hot Chocolate at Hill House” as part of Family Guides at Winter Park Resort, or attending Deer Valley Resort’s ski school, considered one of the nation’s best. Guests of all ages can also take a sleigh ride, go tubing, or, at Copper Mountain, build the “ultimate snow cave” or go snowshoeing.

Ikon Pass destinations share a passion for preserving mountain culture. Many Ikon Pass areas provide access to incredible natural features, big mountains that have to be skied to be believed. Hop on the famous Jackson Hole Mountain Resort Tram or the new Sweetbriar Gondola and let the ripping begin. Corbet’s Couloir is a chalet-known name among skiers and riders the world over. Casper, Tensleep, and Rendezvous Bowls have skiers gushing with well-earned joy, especially when they realize this al fresco alpine playground barely scratches the mountaintop.

Aspen Snowmass offers plenty of tempting terrain north of the tree line, beginning with Highland Bowl, a steep and deep collection of chutes. Several other areas on the Aspen Highlands face would suit any group on an expert skier excursion. In fact, like a jewelry store down in the village, Aspen Highlands and Aspen Mountain are littered with enough diamonds to make one a little snow-blind. Like the Ikon Pass itself, Aspen Snowmass is all about variety, providing terrain for skiers of all abilities across its broad and friendly face. Buttermilk is a great place to start learning or to warm up the legs for what lies ahead.

Terrain diversity reigns supreme at Big Sky Resort as well. The site of the most skiable acres in America, Big Sky offers robust intermediate runs from almost every lift, as well as a fine selection of serious challenges descending Lone Mountain. AltaSnowbird combines top-to-bottom variety, from boot packing terrain to dry powder runs that leave you gasping for the chairlift.







Romantics will also find their turns and turndowns across the Ikon Pass traverse. Stratton and Killington Resort combine great terrain with a bucolic village setting, ideal for après ski following a shared day on the slopes, and then for dinner followed by a moonlit stroll. Weekend getaways to Mammoth Mountain or Big Bear Mountain Resort, or a once-in-a-lifetime trip to CMH Heli-Skiing & Summer Adventures in British Columbia, the world’s first heli-ski operation, are all within close reach, thanks to the Ikon Pass.

We all know the tingle—that reminder that comes every fall when the temperature dips, the days shorten, and the snow begins to fall. The slopes are getting ready, as are we, tuning up our skis, sharpening snowboard edges, and plotting the winter sojourns. We are no longer sequestered to our home hill and one or two other destinations. The Ikon Pass opens a continent of terrain and experiences that boggle the mind and invite each of us to point our skis and snowboards down mountains across the continent.