By StoryStudio

Throughout history, humans have dreamed of immortality. The search for ways to prolong our lives are splashed across the pages of our favorite books, and onscreen in some of our favorite movies. From Ponce de Leon searching for the Fountain of Youth, to Harry Potter finding the Sorcerer’s Stone, to Indiana Jones drinking from the Holy Grail, the quest for eternal life has long captured our imagination.

Now, with science drawing ever closer to cracking the code, the concept of immortality is no longer an inconceivable myth. But the idea of living forever comes with some ethical questions that must be explored. Luckily, the San Francisco Chronicle’s ongoing series, Chronicle Chats, is back and ready to engage in a lively discussion about the medical potential and ethical implications of living forever.

get your tickets now Use code SFGATE for 50% off your ticket

The inspiration for On Science: Should We Live Forever? was born from a soon-to-publish explanatory project from The Chronicle. The project will be released in the late spring and will examine stem cell research and California’s unprecedented taxpayer-funded investment in this new science. This Chronicle Chats event should prove to be a compelling sneak peek into this line of inquiry. Tickets for On Science: Should We Live Forever?, which will take place at the Herbst Theatre on May 8, 2018, are still available.

Chronicle Chats is a series that aims to bring together thought-leaders, influencers, newsmakers and trendsetters to discuss the issues most affecting the citizens of the Bay Area. “The Chronicle’s role in this region is to provoke and inspire thoughtful discussions about what is happening in our world,” Cooper said. “Chronicle Chats are a perfect way of extending those conversations beyond the newspaper or websites.”

With the curious mind of Audrey Cooper leading On Science: Should We Live Forever?, which will explore questions like whether or not we should invest in the promise of ending all disease and aging, as well as the ramifications of immortality on the planet and environment, audiences should expect passionate and thought-provoking arguments between the two panelists.

Dr. Aubrey de Grey gave a compelling TED talk in 2005 in which he argued that aging was just a disease that science could cure someday. He compared aging to malaria, but pointed out that aging kills significantly more people than malaria, yet malaria is the illness that society won’t accept. In 2008, de Grey wrote a book entitled “Ending Aging: The Rejuvenation Breakthroughs That Could Reverse Human Aging in Our Lifetime,” which posits that the key biomedical technology required to eliminate aging, and even death, is now within reach.

Dr. Hurlbut, on the other hand, is more interested in the ethical issues associated with advancing biomedical technology to that extent. His courses in biomedical ethics in the Program in Human Biology included: Biology, Technology and Human Life and Social and Ethical Issues in Neurosciences. “I think human beings are a marvel. We are our bodies. There are not good genes and bad genes. There’s a balance in genetics,” said Hurlbut in the futurist documentary, ‘Transcendent Man.’ “We could do a lot of foolish things trying to alter human beings to improve them. The result of that might be tragedy.”

With the Bay Area being the epicenter of technology that could alter human life forever, citizens should not miss this captivating conversation between these leaders in the field. On Science: Should We Live Forever? will take place at the Herbst Theatre on May 8, 2018. Tickets are available here.