SAVANNAH, Ga. –-(Ammoland.com)- Inceptor Ammunition brand, owned by Quantum Ammunition, LLC, is pleased to announce a new ecommerce platform that will allow customers to purchase their favorite Inceptor products directly from the manufacturer.

Shoppers will now have even more options for purchasing Inceptor loaded cartridges and component bullets online. In addition to the online store, Inceptor has also launched a redesigned website that will give users a more seamless browsing experience and comprehensive educational resource.

“Inceptor ammunition is a true game changer in a 140-year-old industry, and now customers can have it delivered directly to their doorstep—straight from the manufacturer,” said Ron Embree, CEO of Inceptor Ammunition. “Visitors can choose from many popular calibers, including 9mm Luger, 45 Auto, 223 Remington, 300 Blackout and more, or purchase high-quality, lead-free component bullets for reloading. Before shopping, customers can explore the new and improved InceptorAmmo.com to watch videos, find technical product data and connect with us on social media.”

Online Store Features

Easy-to-navigate product categories and caliber listings

Straightforward mobile shopping experience

Secure checkout process

Direct link to InceptorAmmo.com

Flat-rate shipping

Website Features

Responsive, mobile-friendly design

Technical product information, videos and visuals

Simple page and product navigation

Up-to-date company news

Complete list of product offerings and available calibers

Load data for reloaders

Media kit and product sheets

Dealer locator tool

International distributor list

Interactive contact page

For customers making purchases at ShopInceptorAmmo.com, Inceptor offers flat-rate shipping of only $5.99 USD for all orders with a total weight of 25 pounds or less. More details can be found here. Additional information about Inceptor loaded cartridges and component bullets is available at InceptorAmmo.com.

About Inceptor Ammunition

Inceptor brand ammunition features the world's most advanced composite materials and manufacturing methods. Serving domestic and international lines of business, Inceptor is available through fine shooting sports retailers everywhere. Proudly made in the USA, Inceptor brand ammunition is designed for superior training, lethality, consistency and performance. A full line of component bullets for handloaders was also added in late 2017. For more information about Inceptor ammunition and components or to become a partner retailer visit inceptorammo.com.