Innovata is to join Flightglobal within the parent Reed Elsevier group, bringing together the leading sources of airline schedules and fleet data under a single brand.



US-based Innovata LLC was wholly acquired on 14 March by Reed Elsevier, a world leading information group, where it will now sit within the Flightglobal unit.



Innovata powers timetable and mapping services for some of the best known names in air travel and transportation, from the global airline alliances through to airports and a host of online travel sites. Its schedules files also power booking systems and analytical services around the world, including the SRS Analyser schedules data service run in collaboration with IATA, with which Innovata is a long-term strategic partner.



The Innovata database covers flights for over 800 carriers that make up the worldwide scheduled network, while Flightglobal is the leading source of aircraft fit, fleet and values data for the world aviation and aerospace sectors.



Flightglobal has worked with Innovata for nearly a decade as the schedules partner for its suite of premium air transport information services, now delivered via the new Flightglobal dashboard. The two companies have also collaborated over the last year in creating the FlightMaps Analytics service.



“Innovata and Flightglobal are two extremely strong and well-established brands in the aviation information sector,” says Melanie Robson, head of Flightglobal. “The bringing together of our highly complementary data assets will accelerate the growth of Flightglobal’s data businesses and enable us to find new solutions for customers by combining both companies’ data and analytical properties. Flightglobal brings huge audience reach, marketing power and multi-media expertise to the Innovata business.”



Over the coming months, the businesses will start to explore the benefits of bringing together the fleets and flights data across the services of both Innovata and Flightglobal.



For more information please click on the following links:

Corporate press release

Innovata

Flightglobal dashboard

FlightMaps Analytics