By StoryStudio

&amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span style=”display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;” data-mce-type=”bookmark” class=”mce_SELRES_start”&amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;﻿&amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;

Announcer: “It’s the bottom of the 9th, we’re down one with runners on base and two outs. Fans are nervously cracking open peanuts to the sound of the bat. Base hit! And we score!” Summer just wouldn’t be the same without roasted in-shell peanuts and baseball.

From Picnics to Pastime: Summer + Peanuts = Fun

Whether attending a fair, a picnic or a baseball game there’s a strong chance you remember munching on Hampton Farms in-shell peanuts. In fact, when it comes to our traditions, one can argue that peanuts are just as American as apple pie. This summer make new memories with your family by adding some in-shell peanuts to your BBQ, outdoor movie night, camping trip or any activity.

Smart Snack Food Provides Fiber Plus 30 Essential Vitamins and Minerals

Peanuts are a plant-based protein making them a great source of nutrition. In fact, scientific evidence suggests but does not prove that eating 1.5 ounces of most nuts, such as peanuts, as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol may reduce the risk of heart disease. The risk of type 2-Diabetes may also decrease as well as helping in lowering body weight. There just aren’t many foods that provide as much good health as the peanut.

Peanuts Paint A Farm-to-Table Portrait Across America

The peanut’s simplicity is part of its charm. Cloistered in its shell waiting to be cracked open, the relationship of peanut to family farm is equally direct. Hampton Farms peanuts are produced by small, multigenerational farms that span from New Mexico to Virginia. Hampton Farms works with many of these families to produce the best peanuts in the world, selling peanut seeds to farmers and working with them throughout the growing season. They then process those same peanuts to create and sell finished products, including in-shell peanuts.

3 rd Generation Family Business Continues to Thrive

Hampton Farms certainly knows something about family and tradition. America’s largest in-shell peanut producer is a 3rd generation family business. The Barnes family began farming peanuts in North Carolina more than one century ago, forming a company with three other families after World War II.

Through all this growth, one element has remained unchanged: in-shell peanuts are still a classic American favorite. Rarely do we find a food that is both nutritious and so much fun to eat. But that’s exactly what we have in the simple peanut. This storied nut can be found in our national pastime’s 7th inning anthem as well as in snack bowls everywhere. In a society dependent on quick fixes and convenience, it’s good to know this healthy “brain” food from Hampton Farms still includes fun in every shell.

Along with finding Hampton Farms in-shell peanuts at the ballpark, you can also find them in the fresh produce department of your favorite grocery store. Add a bag to your list before you head out to your next event!

Hampton Farms Peanuts. It’s summer in a shell.