Giada De Laurentiis shows off the Marra Forni pizza oven, made by a company in Beltsville, Md. It heats the pizzas at 700 degrees. (Photo: Julekha Dash, for USA TODAY)

Food Network personality Giada De Laurentiis says "third time’s the charm” at her new restaurant, GDL Italian by Giada in Baltimore.

The Emmy Award-winning TV star opened the 180-seat trattoria-style eatery on May 22 at the Horseshoe Baltimore casino, her first restaurant outside of Las Vegas. De Laurentiis opened Pronto by Giada at Caesars Palace in February, four years after opening her namesake restaurant at The Cromwell.

More: Celebrity chef guide to Las Vegas

GDL Italian is one of three restaurants at the casino helmed by Food Network luminaries. In November, Horseshoe Baltimore welcomed the second location of Gordon Ramsay Steak, where diners can feast on cioppino and herb gnocchi with beef cheeks from the fiery Scottish-born British chef. Guy Fieri’s Baltimore Kitchen + Bar, featuring the outsized, spiky-haired chef’s burgers, wings and trash can nachos, opened along with the casino in 2014.

Horseshoe’s VP of food and beverage Jay Lattimer explains that the three restaurants offer something for everyone. “Guy Fieri is pretty much about beer and gastro fare," he says. "Giada does great food but in a really approachable dining environment. For fine dining, there’s Gordon Ramsay Steak. It's all the levels of what people are looking for.”

One of six Maryland casinos, the two-level Horseshoe features slots, table games and 14Forty lounge, which showcases live music, karaoke and other entertainment. B’More Chicken & Donuts, Lenny’s Deli, Piezzetta Pizza Kitchen and Guy’s Bar-B-Que Joint offer quick bites in the food market. It’s located less than two miles south of the Inner Harbor and in an area that city leaders are betting will become an entertainment district.

And execs at the Caesar’s Entertainment casino are gambling on the flavors of the three TV chefs to reel in the diners.

“It’s hard to compete with the three celebrity chefs in terms of the reach of fans and the respect that the three of them garner,” Lattimer says.

While their brands may be national, the celebs’ restaurants give a nod to local vendors. Old Bay spices up everything from wings to Maryland crab soup. Gordon Ramsay Steak and GDL Italian source meat from Roseda Farm in Monkton, Md. Seafood at GDL comes from local supplier J.J. McDonnell & Co.

Beltsville, Md., company Marra Forni designed GDL Italian’s bright red brick pizza oven, which heats the pizzas at 700 degrees, and is one of the vibrant elements in the sleek space.

Marked by colorful, contemporary furniture and glass, and corrugated steel lights of varying heights, the restaurant’s design is “modern Italian with a California flair," says De Laurentiis. "It’s very bright and airy, but more casual than the restaurant in Vegas.”

See the photo gallery above for a virtual tour of the restaurants at Horseshoe Baltimore and preview more new eateries below.

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2LujWba