By StoryStudio

Take a long look at the beautiful palm trees and sunny beaches of Southern California, and it’s easy to see why residents love living there.

Visual artist Won Ju Lim, who grew up in Los Angeles, couldn’t get Southern California out of her head when she spent some time living in Germany. Her homesickness for the palm trees and sunshine of her hometown inspired her to create California Dreamin’ (2002), a multimedia installation recently acquired by the San Jose Museum of Art.

This is the US premiere of the installation and the first time Lim has shown the work in California. And it’s only on display through summer.

California Dreamin’ follows a “futuristic ruins” concept, reminding us that California isn’t all beaches and movie stars. Locals will connect to the images, but the shadows create an aura of mystery.

Classic science fiction films, such as Blade Runner and Logan’s Run, inspired Lim’s vision. “When you see the piece, you see the mystery surrounding it and the cinematography used in those films,” says SJMA associate curator Rory Padeken. “Movie buffs will immediately recognize those references.”

California Dreamin’ is art with no rules and no boundaries. Observe it from many angles. Notice how the light casts shadows on the buildings. Use your eyes, ears and mind to come up with your own interpretation. It’s totally Instagrammable, but it’s also something you must experience in person.

Padeken called Lim’s work an “ethereal urban oasis…where fantasy, memory and longing unite in brilliant color and wild optimism.”

Unlike the steel and concrete that make up our actual big cities, Lim created her fantastical metropolis with foam core board, multicolored Plexiglas and a small Ikea lamp. Digital video and still image projections of postcard sunsets breathe life into Lim’s model homes and prefab buildings.

“When you walk around the sculpture, you can be in it instead of outside of it,” says Padeken. “That’s the beauty of video installation. The Plexiglas distorts the images, yet the colors are exuberant. And everything is a bit out of reach, which relates back to Lim’s homesickness for L.A.”





































Image 1 of / 10 Caption Close Image 2 of 10 Image 3 of 10 Image 4 of 10 Image 5 of 10 Image 6 of 10 Image 7 of 10 Image 8 of 10 Image 9 of 10 Image 10 of 10 Instagram moment: L.A. like you've never seen it at San Jose Museum of Art 1 / 10 Back to Gallery

Other exhibit highlights

Lim’s exhibition will also include lightboxes from her series “Memory, Palaces, Terraces 49” (2003). In each, shadows of pine and oak trees and blocky homes perch atop hillsides. The shadows, when lit, are haunting and mesmerizing.

SJMA’s new exhibit will also feature Lim’s mixed media sculpture “A Piece Of,” which features a topographic profile of Echo Park encased in yellow Plexiglas.

About Won Ju Lim

Born in South Korea and raised in Los Angeles, Lim holds an undergraduate degree in architecture from Woodbury University in Burbank, California, and an MFA from Art Center College of Design in Pasadena. Her work reflects her interest in urban landscapes, not to mention pop culture and Sci Fi. Museums worldwide have featured Lim’s solo exhibitions, including Yerba Buena Center for the Arts (Raycraft Is Dead, 2015).

Come for the party, stay for the exhibit

The exhibition opens on Thursday, June 21, with a “Creative Minds” talk by Lim at 6:00 p.m. Lecture tickets are $12 ($6 for members) and include museum admission from 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.

Can’t make the opening? Visit the museum Tuesday through Sunday between 11:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. and until 8:00 p.m. or later on the third Thursday of the month.

Snap up your tickets here!