The Israeli Air Force says its F-35A fighters recently participated in two separate air strikes, which would be the first use of the F-35 in combat.

The IAF did not offer much detail, leaving it unclear whether the fighters fired any kind of weaponry or simply acted in some kind of support capacity.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Israeli Air Force head Maj. Gen. Amikam Norkin told participants at a IAF leadership conference, “We are flying the F-35 all over the Middle East. It had become part of our operational capabilities. We are the first to attack using the F-35 in the Middle East and have already attacked twice on different fronts.” According to the Jerusalem Post, Norkin made the remarks while standing in front of a photograph of a F-35 flying over Beirut, Lebanon.

"We are the first to attack using the F-35 in the Middle East."

Israel has one squadron of F-35s at Nevatim Air Base. The squadron was declared combat capable in December 2017. The country has another F-35s on order. Israel's version of the multi-purpose warplane, called the F-35I, has Israeli technology built into the plane at the factory, including an Israeli-developed command, control, communications, computer and intelligence (C4I) system.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

The IAF head did not elaborate on the two claimed attacks. As far as recent Israeli actions, we know that on February 10, Israeli warplanes struck Iranian forces in Syria, losing a F-16I fighter in the process. Seven days later, rockets fired from the Gaza Strip against Israel resulted in IAF air strikes against the terrorist group Hamas. On May 11, Israel attacked more than 50 Iranian targets in Syria, Israel’s largest air operation against Syria in almost forty years, after Iranian forces launched 32 surface-to-surface rockets against targets in Israel.

It seems likely that the F-35 participated in the May 11 strikes. The “Adir” fighter, as it is known locally in Israel, could have dropped bombs on targets directly. Alternately, the F-35 could have used its advanced sensors to identify targets on the ground for other warplanes to attack, then coordinated the entire attack via airplane's C4I system.

For example, the F-35’s infrared detection system could have picked up what Norkin described as a BM-27 Uragan multiple rocket launcher vehicle operating in the service of Hezbollah, Iran’s regional proxy. The Uragan’s 16 launch tubes, recently scorched by rocket engines, would have glowed brightly on the F-35’s sensors, allowing the pilot to identify the threatening vehicle and pass on targeting data to other Israeli aircraft.

Norkin’s cryptic (and intentionally vague) comment about the F-35 flying “all over the Middle East” is intriguing. In March, reports surfaced that two Israeli F-35s had overflown Iran as a warning to the country’s leaders. There were several problems with the rumor. most obviously that if Iran cannot to detect the F-35 then it would be unlikely to know it was being overflown. Still, Israel never actually denied the incident.

Israel has a long history of being an early adopter of U.S. combat warplanes and then being the first to use them in combat. As FlightGlobal points out, the F-15’s first kill was by a F-15A in Israeli Air Force service in 1979, long before the U.S. Air Force itself shot down an enemy aircraft with the F-15. Israeli F-16s were also the first to see combat, with IAF F-16s bombing Iraq’s Osirak nuclear reactor in 1981.