Israel flag with a view of old city Jerusalem (Photo: stellalevi, Getty Images)

David Kurzmann, Executive Director, Jewish Community Relations Council/AJC (Photo: Jewish Community Relations Council/AJC)

As Israel approaches the 70th anniversary of its founding, the metro Detroit Jewish community is gearing up for a memorable celebration. One that marks a deeply rooted connection and a sincere pride in Israel’s remarkable accomplishments during its relatively short lifespan as a state.

The moment Israel declared its independence on May 14, 1948, was the realization of a dream that dates back centuries. Generation after generation, the Jewish people prayed for the return to their ancestral homeland. “Next Year in Jerusalem” is a common refrain in Jewish liturgy from the conclusion of Yom Kippur – the most solemn day on the Jewish calendar – to the Passover Seder, which took place in the homes of many Jewish people earlier this month.

More: Jews, Muslims in metro Detroit address hate crimes: 'It's getting scary'

Over seven decades, Israel has grown from a nascent state, one that many observers were unsure would survive, to a thriving and complex democracy. While Israel has and continues to face many internal and external challenges, there is still much to celebrate.

The metro Detroit Jewish community has a dynamic and multi-faceted relationship with the state including sending more people to Israel, per capita, than almost any other Jewish community in North America. In addition, numerous initiatives unite us with our brothers and sisters in Israel including a partnership with Israel’s Central Galilee region, which features an annual Israeli camper program at Tamarack Camp, a Jewish summer camp here in southeast Michigan. This experience is reciprocated when a Teen Mission travels from Detroit to Israel. These collaborations build deep bonds between Israeli and American youngsters.

The Michigan-Israel connection extends to many dimensions of our society – including college campuses. Last year, the Cohn-Haddow Center for Judaic Studies at Wayne State University sent a group of 16 Wayne students to Israel as part of a new program, “Engaging Israeli Technology.” During their 12-day tour, the students - most of whom were science majors visiting Israel for the first time – met with tech companies in Israel involved in a variety of fields, including: agriculture, medicine, security, and the environment. This diverse group included students of all backgrounds including Jews, Christians and Muslims.

Furthermore, technological and business connections between Michigan and Israel abound, reflected most poignantly in the Michigan-Israel Business Accelerator (MIBA), which is poised to take the economic ties between our region and Israel to new heights. This initiative builds on a decade of work by the Michigan-Israel Business Bridge and is surged forward by the support of Governor Snyder and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation.

Unfortunately, many of these successes have been overshadowed by headlines that cast Israel in a negative light. Israel is an imperfect democracy, albeit the only viable democracy in the Middle East. It struggles with internal issues from its relationship with the Palestinians and other minority populations, to immigration, religious equality, and economic disparities. It’s not immune to the forces of populism and nativism that have found traction in many western democracies. Israelis wrestle with these issues on a regular basis, as do its supporters here in metro Detroit. We pray for a day when solutions can be found for territorial issues – which means, for many, a two-state solution negotiated between the parties – as well as other political challenges Israel faces.

A casual observer might question why local supporters of Israel will respond with such enthusiasm on the occasion of the 70th anniversary. The depth of the relationship between metro Detroit and Israel clearly demonstrates the answer.

Happy birthday Israel – to many more years of prosperity and success, and a peaceful future for its inhabitants and neighbors.

David Kurzmann is Executive Director of the Jewish Community Relations Council/AJC in Bloomfield Hills.



Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rAm9IS