Israel says struck 25 more Hamas targets after rocket, mortar fire



by Staff Writers



Jerusalem (AFP) May 30, 2018



Israel said Wednesday it had struck 25 more Hamas "military targets" in air raids in the Gaza Strip overnight in response to rocket and mortar fire, part of the worst military flare-up since a 2014 war.

Targets included drone sheds, a rocket-making workshop and "military compounds," a military statement said.

Israel had said Tuesday it hit more than 35 militant targets in the Palestinian enclave after a barrage of rocket and mortar fire from Hamas, the Islamist group that runs the Gaza Strip, and Islamic Jihad.

It said late Tuesday about 70 rockets and mortars had been fired at Israel throughout the day. A number of them were intercepted by air defence systems.

Three Israeli soldiers were wounded. There were no immediate reports of casualties in Gaza.

Sirens and explosions continued into the night after Tuesday's eruption.

Late Tuesday, a spokesman for Islamic Jihad said a ceasefire agreement had been reached to restore calm, though the Israeli army declined to comment.

In a rare joint statement, Hamas and Islamic Jihad declared shared responsibility for the rocket and mortar fire, saying it was in retaliation for Israeli attacks targeting their positions.

The exchange of fire comes after weeks of deadly protests and clashes along the Gaza-Israel border. Three members of Islamic Jihad were killed in an Israeli strike on Sunday.

Israel begins work on sea barrier to prevent Gaza infiltrations

Jerusalem (AFP) May 27, 2018 - Israel announced Sunday it had begun working on a barrier off the Mediterranean coast to prevent the possibility of infiltrations by sea from the Gaza Strip.

The "new and impenetrable" barrier being built off the Zikim beach, a few kilometres (miles) north of Gaza, is in effect a fortified breakwater topped with barbed wire, the defence ministry said in a statement.

In the last Gaza war in 2014, Israeli forces killed four Hamas militants who had managed to infiltrate by sea.

The ministry said the breakwater -- the first of its kind in the world -- was expected to be ready by the end of 2018.

"This is a unique obstacle that will effectively prevent the possibility of penetrating Israel by sea," Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman said in a statement.

"This is another blow to Hamas, which will lose yet another strategic ability in which it invested vast amounts of money," he added, in reference to the Islamist movement that controls Gaza.

No other details on the project were provided.

Israel is meanwhile continuing the revamp of its border fence with the besieged enclave -- reinforcements include a new massive underground barrier meant to neutralise the threat of tunnels.

The announcement of the sea wall comes after weeks of tensions on the Gaza border.

At least 119 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli fire in the Gaza Strip since mass protests and clashes broke out on March 30, according to figures from the Gazan health ministry.

No Israelis have been killed in the clashes.

Low-level demonstrations along the border have continued since protests peaked on May 14, when at least 61 Palestinians were killed as tens of thousands of Gazans protested the US transfer of its embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.

Israel says its actions are necessary to defend the border and stop mass incursions into its territory.

It accuses Hamas, with whom it has fought three wars since 2008, of seeking to use the protests as cover to carry out violence.



Related Links

Space War News





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Sanaa (AFP) May 27, 2018

