Epsilor, an Israeli battery and charger manufacturer, has been chosen by the Canadian Armed Forces to supply a battery charging solution for Canada’s Integrated Soldier System (ISS) programme.

The USD3 million contract will see Epsilor develop and deliver 400 multi-channel chargers, spares, and services, with an option for an additional 350 chargers, over the next four years, the company said in a statement.

The ISS programme seeks to equip thousands of personnel with soldier-borne C4I systems, including battle management, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems, all of which require battery supplies for lengthy field operations.

“The Canadian Armed Forces identified battery recharging as a critical capability of the ISS and decided to obtain a dedicated charger that will support its soldiers in the field, in vehicles, in forward operating bases, and for high volume recharging of thousands of batteries simultaneously,” Epsilor added.

“Our new charger supports the LI-145/LI-80 family and BB-2525/U conformal wearable batteries used by the Canadian forces, as well as by various NATO armed forces. Epsilor’s 12-channel charger is packed in a rugged case that will enable soldiers to charge large numbers of batteries in depot as well as in the field and in moving vehicles,” the company said. “The charger, which is designed to receive power from different sources, such as an electric grid and different vehicle sources, is intended to improve tactical flexibility and the energy independence of its users.”

Felix Frisch, vice-president of marketing and sales at Epsilor, told Jane’s that the new charger joins a family of digital products for soldiers. “The company’s conformal batteries, wearable charger, and data switch, NETWALKER, are aimed at becoming the hardware backbone of digital soldier systems,” said Frisch.

Want to read more? For analysis on this article and access to all our insight content, please enquire about our subscription options ihs.com/contact