By StoryStudio

When Bay Area native David Leamer started growing weed back in 1993, he’d just graduated from high school and had no interest in finding a 9 to 5 job. Though marijuana was illegal at the time, Leamer was a progressive thinker. He believed in the healing properties of marijuana—for both the body and the mind. Leamer soldiered on with his work, studying and experimenting with marijuana plant growth. “Cannabis is a healing herb that deserves much appreciation and reverence,” said Leamer. “It should be treated with respect, dignity and caution.”

In 1996, when California became the first state in the union to legalize the use and sale of medical cannabis with Proposition 215, Leamer was already ahead of the curve and a veritable expert on the subject of growing.

In 2011, Leamer opened Cannahealth, a weed delivery service that brought his high-quality medical marijuana right to customers’ doors. Since then, Leamer has shown that he can grow his business as well as he can grow his weed, and Cannahealth now serves more than 4,000 local customers all over the East Bay, including Walnut Creek, Alamo, Moraga, Concord, Pleasant Hill, Martinez, Bay Point, Pittsburg, Antioch, Clayton, Clyde and Danville.

Easy as 1, 2, 3 TEXT ORDER 925 471 8449 Or TEXT ORDER 717 963 4436 CALL 1 800 420 5397

In 2016, when Proposition 64 was approved by California voters and the recreational use of marijuana became legal, Leamer was ecstatic. It seemed that the country was finally catching up to his innovative thinking.

As of January 1, 2018, any adult over the age of 21 in California can now legally grow marijuana. Citizens can possess up to six plants at a time, and no city or town can prohibit you from growing indoors. With these new laws in place, Leamer wants to both dispel the many myths about growing marijuana and share the knowledge that he’s cultivated over the years. Read on for tips on the trade from one of its most creative and passionate proponents.

Growing Weed Is Not Hard

There’s a common misconception that you need a green thumb in order to grow weed. Leamer says that it all depends on your mindset. Follow directions and processes correctly, and you’ll soon find yourself with high-quality product.

Create a Great Grow Space

Leamer believes that a grow space is of utmost importance when cultivating marijuana. With just nine square feet, 600 watts of electrical energy, and 90 days, you’ll be able to grow over three pounds of high-quality weed. Make sure the space is ventilated, clean, and safely kept away from pets and children.

Use a Grow Tent

While most home growers prefer to use closets, wardrobes, or large cupboards as their grow spaces, Leamer is a firm believer in a grow tent, specifically a Gorilla grow tent. While slightly more expensive than other tents on the market, Gorilla is one of the most reputable and recognizable brands in the industry. “These grow tents provide a sealed environment to keep your plants safe from meandering bugs and temperature fluctuations,” says Leamer. “The benefits are tremendous.”

Start with a Good Clone

A marijuana clone is a cutting from a marijuana plant that has identical genetic information to that of the parent plant from which it was created. In the simplest terms, a clone is a starter plant. Using clones instead of seeds to grow marijuana allows you to know what to expect from the plant when it comes to strain type, yield, potency and more. Using a clone as opposed to a seed to grow will save you weeks of time, since you won’t need to wait for a seed to germinate. Make sure to get a healthy clone from a trusted source.

Choose the Hydroponic Method

While most people think of plants growing in soil, there’s another, better way to help your marijuana plants thrive. Hydroponics is the art of growing plants without soil. When you do this, the grower provides the plants with all the nutrients they need to thrive. Growing marijuana hydroponically allows a grower to determine exactly the right amount of those nutrients needed in order to maximize yield.

Use Vertical Deep Water Culture

Deep Water Culture, also known as Direct Water Culture, is a simple hydroponic system that has proven to be extremely effective for many growers. “This is my new method for growing the best weed, in the smallest space, with the least amount of energy,” says Leamer. Deep Water Culture works by suspending the marijuana plants’ roots directly into a highly oxygenated nutrient system. Many new growers find that Deep Water Culture systems are easy to construct and incredibly efficient.

Enjoy the Healing Benefits of Marijuana

Once you’ve grown your perfect plants, get ready to start enjoying all the medical benefits of your yield. Marijuana has been said to have many health benefits, including but not limited to slowing cancer growth, treating glaucoma and reducing the frequency of epileptic seizures. It also provides pain relief, decreases anxiety and has been known to reduce PTSD symptomology.

For more information on growing, check out the Cannahealth blog.

If you live in the East Bay, you can enjoy Cannahealth’s exceptional products at any time. Delivery is fast and easy! Simply go to www.cannahealth.com or call 1-800-420-5397.