jaguar

The Empire Strikes Back May 28 Author: Richard Truett Tata has defied critics since buying the celebrated British brands from Ford Motor Co., turning them into one of the biggest automotive success stories in recent memory.



The royal E-(for electric?)Type May 28 Author: Nick Gibbs Prince Harry drove his new wife, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, to their evening wedding party in this modernized 1968 convertible and in doing so gifted Jaguar an untold amount of positive publicity.



Ford set up JLR for success before 2008 sale May 28 Author: Richard Truett Like nearly all automotive success stories, Jaguar Land Rover's resurgence is rooted in engineering and design, but its previous owner, Ford, also deserves some credit.



JLR to spend $5.3 billion on new models, tech May 23 Jaguar Land Rover will spend about $6 billion in the current financial year on new models and technologies as the luxury carmaker looks to spur sales that grew at a slower pace.



JLR confirms 1,000 jobs to go as diesel sales slump April 16 Jaguar Land Rover said it will cut 1,000 jobs and reduce production at two UK factories as demand for diesel cars slumps because of higher taxes and a regulatory crackdown.



Developing the I-Pace required tough choices April 16 Author: J.P. Vettraino Wolfgang Ziebart has a pretty good idea of what a Jaguar needs to be.



Jaguar packs 550 hp into F-Pace SVR crossover March 28 Author: Richard Truett Jaguar hopes to retain its customers defecting from sports cars and sport sedans with the F-Pace SVR.



AutoNews Now: Waymo adding electric Jaguars to fleet March 27 Waymo to add as many as 20,000 electric Jags; BMW sued over diesel emissions; NTSB probes Tesla crash; New Lexus UX offers connectivity, subscriptions; Hyundai union raps trade move.



Waymo, Jaguar Land Rover partner on all-electric, self-driving fleet March 27 Author: Michael Wayland Waymo and Jaguar Land Rover are partnering to create a new fleet of all-electric, self-driving vehicles.



New products rev up Jaguar Land Rover dealers March 22 Author: Richard Truett Fresh off record Land Rover sales in 2017 and another solid year of growth for Jaguar, 2018 brings more new products, including low-production, high-performance vehicles.



I-Pace has everybody buzzing March 11 Author: Richard Johnson Though it was no surprise, the production version of Jaguar's I-Pace still came off as consensus choice for most significant debut in Geneva.

