White Sox pitcher James Shields hasn’t won a game since opening day but ranks 14th among major-league starters in May with a 0.9 WAR, according to fangraphs.com.

That upsurge gives the Sox hope they can deal the veteran by the trade deadline in July, a prospect once considered far-fetched because of Shields’ high salary and high earned-run average.

But if Shields can continue pitching like he has in May, they may even get a decent prospect in return, depending on how much of his remaining salary they would eat in a deal. While the Sox value the 36-year-old’s leadership in the clubhouse, they’d also like to reward him with a chance to pitch for a contender.

Being a part of trade rumors would be nothing new for Shields. He knows the drill.

“I’m going to continue to work hard in between starts and do my thing out there,” he said Wednesday before the Sox-Indians game. “Right now I feel really good out on the mound. I’m going to try and stay consistent and not worry about any of that stuff. Just going to go out there and try to win some ballgames for the White Sox and continue to improve every start.”

Shields’ earned-run average remains high at 4.54, but he has allowed six earned runs over 21 1/3 innings in his last three starts. He’s scheduled to face the visiting Brewers on Saturday.

Though Shields’ 2018 salary is $21 million, the Sox are responsible for only $10 million with the Padres owing the rest. He was acquired in June of 2016 for two prospects, including Fernando Tatis Jr., now considered one of the top prospects in the game.

At the time, the Sox felt they had enough talent to contend for a postseason spot, adding Shields to a rotation that included Chris Sale, Jose Quintana and Carlos Rodon. But they finished 78-84, which led to the decision not to renew manager Robin Ventura’s contract and to begin rebuilding in the offseason.

Sale and Quintana are long gone, but Shields didn’t pitch well enough last year for the Sox to move him.

Having been dealt from the Rays to the Royals after the 2012 season, Shields has been the subject of trade rumors a few times in his career. But with Twitter and mlbtraderumors.com, every rumor gets spread on the internet nowadays.

“Obviously it’s a little different because you hear about it more,” he said. “But at the end of the day it’s all the same. You know those things happen, but as a player we can’t really focus on that. We can just control what we control, and that’s taking the rock every five days and doing our job.”

psullivan@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @PWSullivan

Reynaldo Lopez faces Indians as the White Sox try to avoid a sweep »

'Hard-luck' James Shields winless in last 11 starts as Tigers beat White Sox »

Paul Sullivan: White Sox should make pitch for Hanley Ramirez when he becomes free to sign »