Work with us at the new Chicago Sun-Times

Thanks for your interest in working at the Chicago Sun-Times. We’re determined to listen to – and engage with – the hard-working people of Chicago to bring them news coverage that matters. Using new, multi-platform production and delivery capabilities, we will meet our news consumers where they are and provide our advertising partners with real value. We are a results-driven team looking for people who can make a impact. If you are creative, hard-working, talented and eager to build a new kind of media company for our city, we’d like to hear from you!

Please apply for one position only. You will be considered for any other opening in which your qualifications fit the job requirements.

Finance

The Payroll Manager is responsible for ensuring the biweekly processing of the company’s payroll. Essential duties include ensuring the accurate calculation of wages, tax withholdings, and company deductions and payment of wages to employees. The Payroll Manager directs the activities of a Payroll Clerk. Learn more about this position.

This is an exciting opportunity for a someone who loves working in the fast-paced environment of news and information. We’re looking for someone who knows their way around an Excel spreadsheet, enjoys number crunching, has strong organizational skills, is a resourceful problem solver, possesses a positive attitude and plays to win. Learn more about this position.

Circulation

A self-motivated, sales-oriented team player needed to execute various sales programs that are focused on building home delivery and single copy circulation for the Chicago Sun Times. The Circulation Sales Manager is directly responsible for growing digital and print circulation by retaining current customers, gaining new customers, and improving single copy sales of the newspaper. Learn more about this position.

Outbound Customer Service Representatives provide support to the established customer base of the Chicago Sun Times. Essential duties include, updating payment methods, reminding customers to make a payment, calling a customer about an overdue balance so the customer can schedule a payment, and attempting to convince lapsed customers to resume delivery. Learn more about this position.

Merchandisers ensure that products appear in the right store at the appropriate time and in the correct quantities. This involves working closely with the newspaper analytics team to accurately forecast trends, plan stock levels and monitor performance. Position is part-time and requires a car. Individuals will be assigned by region for the performance of their duties. Learn more about this position.

We’re looking for a savvy, data and deadline-driven email marketing strategist to expand our print and digital subscriber base. The ideal candidate has proven experience expanding, iterating on, and right-sizing lists, and demonstrates a passion for our current products and future product pipeline. Learn more about this position.

Product

We’re seeking experienced WordPress Developers to continually improve our digital presentation, functionality, and usability. These individuals will have a very strong understanding of WordPress architecture, can build custom themes from scratch and connect third-party systems with APIs. Learn more about this position.

News

If you love social media and have experience showcasing a news brand in engaging ways to drive web traffic, let’s talk. Only people who are pros at multi-tasking, carry a positive outlook and enjoy working on a team need apply. Learn more about this position.

This person will fill a key support role in our new media unit that create new products with advertiser appeal. The successful candidate brings a versatile technical skill-set which includes experience conceiving, planning, producing and editing podcasts. Learn more about this position.

Run our evening newsroom digital desk by assisting reporters with story coverage and planning. This is a great opportunity for a person on his/her first editorial job wanting the chance to take on more responsibility. Strong organizational skills, a must. Learn more about this position.

Take the lead at Chicago’s alternative weekly, the READER, where arts, politics and social justice are staple content. We’re seeking an editorial innovator to support that mission, while expanding the brand in new digital directions to grow audience. Learn more about this position.

Responsible for being the newsroom’s top decision maker in the late-afternoon and into the night, working alongside content producers, the audience team, print desk and other editors. The successful candidate will ensure that both the digital and print products reflect the high-quality journalism for which the Sun-Times is known. Learn more about this position.

Responsible for helping readers survive some of the most important parts of their day: the commute — whether it’s driving, taking the train, or riding the bus or a bike. Learn more about this position.

Sales

Sun Times Media Productions is excited to announce openings on our sales team!!! You will work in a high-performing environment responsible for selling comprehensive programs to local, regional and national clients. Learn more about this position.