Joe Maddon sounds like a guy headed toward some bad managing.

Or maybe I should say some more bad managing if you’re counting every time Ian Happ starts in center field instead of Albert Almora Jr.

To recap, on Monday, Anthony Rizzo leveled Pirates catcher Elias Diaz sliding in front of the plate in an attempt to break up a double play. Pirates manager Clint Hurdle argued for interference. Cubs manager Joe Maddon argued that Rizzo’s slide was legal and good baseball. The umpires and replay officials ruled Rizzo’s play legal.

But on Tuesday, MLB’s chief baseball officer, Joe Torre, told both teams that Rizzo should’ve been called for interference because he deviated from his path to initiate contact.

At what point can we expect umpires and replay officials to know all the rules?

But here’s what might be worse: The famously stubborn Maddon still thinks he’s right, still thinks Rizzo’s slide was legal, still thinks that’s baseball no matter how many rules baseball has changed for safety reasons.

“With all due respect, I totally, 100 percent, disagree with the interpretation of the rule, and hopefully at the end of the season that can be somewhat fixed,” Maddon said Tuesday after hearing from Torre.

“Don’t penalize Anthony for doing the right baseball thing he has been taught to do from the time he was a kid, and all of a sudden something thrown into the mix the day after is interpreted as being wrong but not the day of. It’s kind of incongruent. I do believe I’m right.”

No, Joe, Rizzo didn’t do the right baseball thing. MLB just said so. But Maddon shouldn’t have required MLB to say something. Maddon and Cubs, like all teams, had advance notice. The rule was written down and loudly discussed. Try to keep up with the class.

But Maddon continues to proclaim that Rizzo did the right thing, and the more he does so, the more this sounds like bad managing.

I know a manager has to protect his players, and good for Maddon doing that loudly this week, but if he continues to insist that Rizzo’s slide was legal, then his players will believe it and they’ll continue to make illegal slides and they’ll be called for interference. That would be some bad managing.

Maddon’s job is not to stubbornly insist that he’s right. His job is to make sure his team has the best chance to win. Making sure his players execute legal slides is part of that.

Maybe Maddon, through gritted teeth, will explain proper sliding decisions to his players. Cubs fans should hope so. That’s the only option. MLB just said so.

There rule might be vague, but it is a rule and the overarching point is to prevent collisions, to stop runners from going out of their paths to initiate contact. That’s the way players must run the bases. That’s the way managers must insist they run the bases or they’re guilty of bad managing.

Rookie Matt Skole homered in his major-league debut and said he “couldn’t have dreamed of anything better.’’ This dream, mind you, came after the White Sox made three errors in one inning to blow a 5-2 lead and eventually lose in Cleveland. White Sox life these days.

Celtics: Blew Game 7 and the chance to advance to the NBA Finals by shooting 7-for-39 from beyond the arc.

Rockets: Hold my beer.

The Rockets missed 27 straight 3-pointers, and I’m thinking, that’s a piece of strategy to file away for next year’s Bulls tank job.

The question was never which teams would meet for the NBA title. The question is whether the process by which they got there has ever been uglier.

What’s up, Don Wengert?

Official review determines Cubs' Anthony Rizzo guilty of interference »

Joe Maddon sticks with belief Anthony Rizzo's controversial slide was legal »

Anthony Rizzo's home run sparks Cubs rally in 8-6 win over Pirates »