May 28, 2018; Detroit, MI, USA; Los Angeles Angels left fielder Justin Upton (8) is congratulated by teammates after scoring in the eighth inning against the Detroit Tigers at Comerica Park. Mandatory Credit: Rick Osentoski-USA TODAY Sports (Photo: Rick Osentoski, Rick Osentoski-USA TODAY Sports)

Justin Upton, Los Angeles Angels outfielder, received an award on Tuesday afternoon.

Presented by Baseball Hall of Famer Tom Gage — who won the J.G. Taylor Spink Award in 2015 — Upton finally received his hardware for being named Tiger of the Year last season, as voted on by the Detroit chapter of the Baseball Writers’ Association of America.

“I enjoyed my time here,” Upton said. “I enjoyed the city. We didn’t accomplish what we set out to accomplish obviously, but I made a lot of great relationships and played in some fun baseball games. That’s all you can ask for.”

Again, for good measure, Upton said, “Obviously we wanted to win a championship.”

The Tigers did not — they finished with the worst record in baseball last season — and when they traded Upton to the Angels on Aug. 31, it was a sign of things to come.

Upton headed out for a pair of pitching prospects, right-handers Grayson Long and Elvin Rodriguez. The move was beneficial for both sides: The Tigers rid themselves of the final four years of Upton’s contract, totaling $78 million, and Upton was able to play the final month of the season in a pennant race.

More Tigers:

Upton had previously been interested in signing with the Angels, whose spring training facilities are located near his home in Scottsdale, Ariz., and even earned some more money in the move: The Angels extended his contract for one more season.

Upton came to Detroit as a highly-regarded All-Star player. With the Tigers, he struggled mightily through the first half of the 2016 season before nearly hitting them into the playoffs. In two seasons with the Tigers, he hit .260 with 59 home runs and 181 RBIs.

“The second half of that season, after the struggles I had early on, the second half of the season meant a lot to me,” Upton said. “You never want to come into a situation where you’re supposed to help a team and not. But I’m glad I could show and be the player I set out to be when I signed that contract here.”

The Tigers signed Upton to a six-year, $132.75 million contract prior to the 2016 season. The deal had an opt-out clause after the first two seasons.

With the Angels, Upton reunited with second baseman Ian Kinsler, who was traded to Anaheim in the off-season. He is also hitting in a lineup with superstar names like Mike Trout and Albert Pujols, playing for a team who has American League postseason aspirations. Upton is hitting .251 with 11 home runs this season.

Upton has played for five teams in his 12 seasons in the Major Leagues. But he counts Detroit as one of his favorite stops.

“One of the best places I’ve played, for sure,” he said. “I loved coming to this ballpark. We knew we’d have a good crowd and we knew we were going to have a lot of energy in the park. As a player, you have to love that. I enjoyed every minute.”

Contact Anthony Fenech: afenech@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @anthonyfenech.