When it comes to junk food, it turns out you are what you watch.

For young people, watching one extra advertisement a week for some “junk food” product was correlated with the consumption of 350 additional calories from foods that were high in salt, sugar and fat, according to a study by Cancer Research UK. The finding was based on a study of more than 3,300 people between the ages of 11 and 19 in the UK.

In general, being more familiar with marketing campaigns for fast-food chains was linked with an increased likelihood of eating unhealthy food and gaining weight, across all ages and genders. “Young people from deprived backgrounds would potentially have the most to gain from regulation designed to reduce junk food ad exposure,” wrote Jyotsna Vohra, head of the Cancer Policy Research Center at Cancer Research UK and the research lead on the study.

While young people watched 21 hours of TV each week across various platforms, obese teens watched almost 26 hours per week of content. Meanwhile, young people on average said they ate roughly 30 foods that were high in fat, salt and sugar, versus just 16 portions of fruits and vegetables.

But young people aren’t just wantonly eating junk food. More than 40 percent said they had felt pressured to eat unhealthy food in the past.

If public health officials want to curb the obesity epidemic among younger Americans, they’ll have limited success by just switching off the TV, the researchers wrote. Because of the advent of tablets, parents will need to fight this battle on two fronts if their children are watching a lot of TV and experiencing the results of overeating.

“With today’s teens spending more time in front of screens than any other activity apart from sleeping, curbing exposure to junk food ads on streaming platforms as well as TV will be key to helping teens make healthy diet choices and reducing obesity rates,” they said.

The researchers’ findings were based on a self-reported survey that asked about age, gender, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, food and drink consumption and viewing habits. Because it was self-reported, the researchers cautioned that these observational differences could not single handedly explain the cause-and-effect between watching advertisements about these junk foods and higher rates of obesity.