Making bail in Cuyahoga County: A study in inconsistency Peter Krouse and Sara Dorn, cleveland.com



cleveland.com examines these inequities as part of Impact 2016: Justice for All, a series that highlights issues with the bail systems used in Cuyahoga County and reports on courts with fairer systems. cleveland.com examines these inequities as part of Impact 2016: Justice for All, a series that highlights issues with the bail systems used in Cuyahoga County and reports on courts with fairer systems. Continue reading

Cuyahoga County top Judge Russo says he's ready to examine bail reform Sara Dorn, cleveland.com



Cuyahoga County's top judge, John J. Russo, will take a close look at bail reform, and has invited other key players in the justice system to work with him, he told cleveland.com reporters and editors in an interview Thursday. Cuyahoga County's top judge, John J. Russo, will take a close look at bail reform, and has invited other key players in the justice system to work with him, he told cleveland.com reporters and editors in an interview Thursday. Continue reading

Cleveland Municipal Court aims to reform bail system by end of the year Sara Dorn & Peter Krouse, cleveland.com



Cleveland Municipal Court Judge Ronald Adrine wants to move fast to change a bail system that needlessly keeps some defendants in jail because of their inability to pay for their release. Cleveland Municipal Court Judge Ronald Adrine wants to move fast to change a bail system that needlessly keeps some defendants in jail because of their inability to pay for their release. Continue reading

Cuyahoga County top judge debates need for bail reform Sara Dorn, cleveland.com



Cuyahoga County spends millions of taxpayer dollars every year jailing defendants accused of low-level crimes while their cases are resolved in court, simply because they cannot afford to pay bail. Cuyahoga County spends millions of taxpayer dollars every year jailing defendants accused of low-level crimes while their cases are resolved in court, simply because they cannot afford to pay bail. Continue reading

Suddenly, Cuyahoga County justice reform is likely because of Judge John. J. Russo Chris Quinn, cleveland.com



The chief judge of the Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court, John J. Russo, visited with our Editorial Board and told us that he sent invitations Wednesday to everyone with a stake in the justice system to join him in an effort to improve it. The chief judge of the Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court, John J. Russo, visited with our Editorial Board and told us that he sent invitations Wednesday to everyone with a stake in the justice system to join him in an effort to improve it. Continue reading

Reaction to "Justice for All" is mandate for Cuyahoga County court reform Chris Quinn, cleveland.com



Rarely have we seen momentum build as quickly for a movement as we have over the last two weeks regarding reform of the Cuyahoga County bail system, so that people are treated the same regardless of wealth and so that taxpayer dollars are spent efficiently. Rarely have we seen momentum build as quickly for a movement as we have over the last two weeks regarding reform of the Cuyahoga County bail system, so that people are treated the same regardless of wealth and so that taxpayer dollars are spent efficiently. Continue reading

Victims of Bail

The personal stories of people who couldn't afford bail Peter Krouse, cleveland.com



Today, we look at the human side of the issue. We are rolling out vignettes about some of the people who have languished in jail because of their inability to make bail. Today, we look at the human side of the issue. We are rolling out vignettes about some of the people who have languished in jail because of their inability to make bail. Continue reading

Lyndhurst man who can't afford bail waits 4 days to answer drunken jaywalking charge Sara Dorn, cleveland.com



Cuyahoga Thomas Stepien spent four days in jail in April on a drunken jaywalking charge. Cuyahoga Thomas Stepien spent four days in jail in April on a drunken jaywalking charge. Continue reading

Shaker Heights jailed this traffic offender for a week because he couldn't pay bail Sara Dorn, cleveland.com



Wright couldn't afford the $715 he needed to get out of jail after he was arrested for skipping out on payments and court hearings for a 2014 traffic ticket in the Shaker Heights Municipal Court. Wright couldn't afford the $715 he needed to get out of jail after he was arrested for skipping out on payments and court hearings for a 2014 traffic ticket in the Shaker Heights Municipal Court. Continue reading

Suspect in underwear theft jailed for eight days because he can't afford bail Peter Krouse, cleveland.com



Airrick Dotson spent eight days in this suburb's jail waiting to see a judge on a charge of stealing $12.95 worth of underwear. Airrick Dotson spent eight days in this suburb's jail waiting to see a judge on a charge of stealing $12.95 worth of underwear. Continue reading

The Solution

Bail made fair in the District of Columbia Sara Dorn, cleveland.com



Cuyahoga County has for years discussed ways to make its justice system more fair, efficient and cost-effective. Cleveland.com went to Washington, D.C. to see a highly regarded criminal justice system that frees many criminal defendants without making them post bail. Cuyahoga County has for years discussed ways to make its justice system more fair, efficient and cost-effective. Cleveland.com went to Washington, D.C. to see a highly regarded criminal justice system that frees many criminal defendants without making them post bail. Continue reading

How D.C. court reforms save $398 million Peter Krouse, cleveland.com



Washington, D.C. saves $398 million per year in jail costs by releasing 85 percent of defendants without having them pay bail. We traveled to D.C. to see how the no-money bail system works and here we answer questions about D.C.'s court reforms. Washington, D.C. saves $398 million per year in jail costs by releasing 85 percent of defendants without having them pay bail. We traveled to D.C. to see how the no-money bail system works and here we answer questions about D.C.'s court reforms. Continue reading

Cleveland NAACP calls for justice reform in Cuyahoga County Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

Questions about constitutionality of bail not lost on Cuyahoga County judges Peter Krouse, cleveland.com

Cuyahoga County panel takes steps toward possible bail reforms Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

Reforms considered by Cuyahoga County courts are succeeding in Lucas County Peter Krouse, cleveland.com

Slow pace of Cuyahoga County bail reform troubles some volunteers Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

How Cuyahoga County courts could learn from bail reform in Pittsburgh Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

Committees to review the Cuyahoga County bail and bond system take shape Mary Kilpatrick, cleveland.com

Cuyahoga County starts review of bail systems Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

More

Shaker Heights Judge K.J. Montgomery to meet with councils, mayors on bail reform Sara Dorn, cleveland.com



Judge K. J. Montgomery said Thursday that she plans to talk with council members and mayors of the five municipalities served by her court about potential reform of the bail system. Judge K. J. Montgomery said Thursday that she plans to talk with council members and mayors of the five municipalities served by her court about potential reform of the bail system. Continue reading

Bedford Municipal Court planning bail reform Peter Krouse, cleveland.com



Bedford Municipal Court plans to change its longstanding bail policy so that defendants won't have to pay as much to be free on bond, and will have a greater incentive to make their scheduled court appearances. Bedford Municipal Court plans to change its longstanding bail policy so that defendants won't have to pay as much to be free on bond, and will have a greater incentive to make their scheduled court appearances. Continue reading

American Bar Association blasts unfair bail practices in Georgia Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

New Mexico voters overwhelmingly approve ban on unaffordable bail Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

Bail reform is coming to Indiana Sara Dorn, cleveland.com

Where we stand at mid-year on cleveland.com's Impact 2016 strategy Chris Quinn, cleveland.com



Here is where we stand at mid-year on Impact 2016, five areas where the cleveland.com watchdog and advocacy team is focused this year. Here is where we stand at mid-year on Impact 2016, five areas where the cleveland.com watchdog and advocacy team is focused this year. Continue reading

The Latest Stories