Houston Astros starting pitcher Justin Verlander throws during the first inning of a baseball game against the New York Yankees at Yankee Stadium Monday, May 28, 2018, in New York. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig) (Photo: The Associated Press)

In 2011, Justin Verlander turned in maybe the best pitching season from the recent memory, earning the American League Cy Young and MVP awards for the Detroit Tigers.

This season, his first full one with the Houston Astros after last year's trade and World Series win, he looks even better. He's 7-2 with a 1.11 ERA and a 0.71 WHIP with 98 strikeouts in 81⅓ innings.

And the 35-year-old doesn't see an end to his dominance in sight. In an MLB.com story written by former Free Press Tigers writer Jon Paul Morosi, Verlander said he has a lot left in the tank.

"In my head, right now, I'm thinking 45," Verlander replied, when asked about the age at which he'd like to retire. "I don't know if that's realistic. I'm going to go as long as I can, until something changes."

But Tigers fans might remember that time between 2011 and last year, when it look like Verlander was on the downside of his career. A core muscle injury plagued Verlander for almost two seasons, and, as Morosi uncovered, got deep in Verlander's head.

On Aug. 11, 2014, Verlander exited the game against the Pirates in Pittsburgh in the first inning, still ailing, this time his shoulder, which cropped up after not fully rehab his core injury.

Houston Astros starting pitcher Justin Verlander tips his cap as he leaves a baseball game during the seventh inning against the New York Yankees at Yankee Stadium, Monday, May 28, 2018, in New York. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig) (Photo: The Associated Press)

It was the shortest outing of Verlander's career. And he thought it could have been his last.

"There's that tunnel down there, and I sat down and lost it," Verlander said. "I thought my career was over. I thought I was done. I thought the MRI was going to say I needed shoulder surgery.

"I was 99 percent sure I was going to need shoulder surgery. I couldn't throw a baseball."

More:

Justin Verlander is dominating MLB, records his 2,500th strikeout

Justin Verlander: '(Bleep) you' to ex-Tiger caught beating girlfriend

Alas, shoulder surgery wasn't needed. In fact, Morosi gets Verlander to discuss his relationship with Annie Gow, a physical therapist who has helped with the pitcher's "body reclamation project."

It certainly has helped. Verlander finished second in the Cy Young voting in 2016. Then struggled to start last season before turning things around just before the last-minute trade to Houston.

What has maybe also helped? Verlander admits he's a better teammate now than he was in days in Detroit.

"As I've gotten older, I've gotten a lot better at being able to talk to guys, talk pitching, and still do my routine," Verlander said. "That was the problem when I was younger. I was so ingrained in my routine and what I have to do to be good that everything else was outside noise. I've gotten better at listening to the outside noise and [staying] focused."

Asked what changed, Verlander replied, "Just time. Just being comfortable. Stepping into a new organization was an opportunity. In Detroit, you're there for so long. Probably some of the really young guys think I'm unapproachable. Whatever. When I got here [to the Astros], it's like the new toy for everybody else: 'I've never talked with him about pitching.' That was cool. We just had a lot of great conversations about pitching."