A group of parents in Bloomfield is mobilizing against the school district's decision to hire retired, armed police officers to patrol the township's eight elementary schools and early childhood center.

The $550,000 plan would hire and train Class III special officers to start at the schools in the fall. Bloomfield's middle and high schools already have school resource officers and unarmed security guards, the district said.

School safety concerns have jumped to the top of districts' priorities in light of school shootings the last few years. But while school officials say armed officers are part of an overall goal to improve student safety, parents with the newly formed group, Bloomfield Families for Sensible Safety, maintain there are other ways to tighten security without bringing guns to campus.

"Anytime you introduce a weapon into a situation, you are far more likely to have an accident, to have violence," said Melissa De Fino, whose child is entering Kindergarten next year. "So many of the recent tragic school shootings happened when there were armed guards in place."

Parent Noel Gatts said the news came as a "big shock to a lot of people."

"I've heard an overwhelming confusion about it; we need more information. This is obviously a hot button issue," Gatts said. She said parents were not informed of the plan and did not get a chance to express their concerns or get their questions answered before the money was allocated to hire officers.

An online petition opposing the armed guards has 175 signatures so far.

The plan was approved by the Board of Education in April -- included as a line item in the overall district budget.

"The budget was public, open to everyone and anyone. It clearly specified that we were going forward with this," board president Jill Fischman said.

"They've had opportunity at every board meeting to voice any concerns and (have) questions answered. I don't think that if we opened it up to a 24/7 discussion, I still don't think people would say they've had enough say," she added.

Nicholas Dotoli, board counsel and director of administration, said the board valued community input and remained "committed to listening to concerned citizens." He said the next public meeting is June 5.

Former Gov. Chris Christie approved a law allowing the hiring of Class III officers as long as they were specially trained on school safety matters. The officers must be under 65 years old, work no more than 20 hours a week and are not entitled to health or pension benefits for their service.

"We need to make sure that we have somebody that we feel is suitable to be able to co-exist in an elementary school with young children," Bloomfield Superintendent Salvatore Goncalves said.

Dotoli said the district will have a say in the hiring process, though the officers will ultimately report to the police department. Principals will be in control of the day-to-day management, and officers will earn $25 an hour.

Goncalves said the officers will be able to communicate through police radios and quickly relay information to the police department in case of an emergency.

But Gatts said that wasn't enough to justify having guns inside a school with young children.

"Most of the reasons as to why they would be an asset have nothing to do with them carrying a weapon," she said in response.

"It's not the environment that many of us want to provide for our kids when we have so many other safety measures that could be approved upon and we have great proven response times."

Gatts said she was concerned about both the logistics of having armed officers on campus and the emotional effect on her kids.

Goncalves said the district consulted with the Department of Education and other law enforcement agencies on the proposal. He said the district has spent about $1.5 million to add security at the schools, including anti-intruder locks, lighting and security cameras.

Karen Yi may be reached at kyi@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter at @karen_yi or on Facebook.