Federal tax form 1040. (Photo: LIgorko, Getty Images/iStockphoto)

Pay your taxes.

It's really not that hard.

Don't lie about where you live, even if it means you're saving a bundle on car insurance.

These things are not, or should not be, optional.

Yet Detroit is home to a number of new non-resident residents, folks who've moved to high-price apartments in the city's booming Midtown and downtown areas but continue to report suburban addresses. Most often, that's to dodge the city's absurdly high car insurance rates. But those who employ this subterfuge also fail to pay the city's income tax, or vote in its elections.

After examining 33 residential and commercial buildings, and determining that an average of 14.9% of the residents of those buildings are compliant with income tax payments and filings, the city has decided to expand its efforts. Detroit's treasurer has proposed adopting a city ordinance that would require landlords to disclose tenant information, and the city has filed a lawsuit to compel Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert's Bedrock Management to do the same.

More: City of Detroit sues Bedrock for info on any tax-evading tenants

More: Detroit seeks to compel landlords to list renters in search for tax evaders

With tenant rolls, Detroit's tax officials could cross-check residency against IRS filings, determining who lives in the city, and who's only camping out.

That's the idea, at any rate. Some landlords have rebelled against the city's request, saying tenant information is private. Some folks have reacted as though the city's attempt to quantify who lives in it is a big-government overstep.

It's not.

In most cities, the government knows exactly where you live, because masses of people don't lie on their state-issued ID, tax filings, car insurance and car and voter registration.

The city isn't targeting low-income residents; its enforcement efforts are focused exclusively on residents of Midtown and downtown units that cost $750 or more a month, says Detroit Corporation Counsel Lawrence Garcia.

Detroit residents pay 2.4% income tax; nonresidents who work in the city pay 1.2%. Car insurance rates in the city are among the highest in the nation.

But this is what it costs to live in Detroit.

"For a lot of people, faking government about where they live isn’t even an option," Garcia said. "They don’t have the ability to have a mailing address in the suburbs or a second place where they can address their mail. We're certainly trying to help those people that are Detroiters true and proper, by not forcing them to carry the weight of these tax dodgers who pretend they live in the suburbs."

The city's first sweep, Detroit Free Press reporter Katrease Stafford wrote, revealed that some resident non-filers had administrative explanations: Nontaxable retirement income, or a primary residence outside the city.

But Garcia says the city has collected hundreds of thousands of dollars that can be used to purchase police cars, pave roads and provide the city services all Detroiters use, whether they're tax dodgers or not.

How much more is out there? "A lot more than that," Garcia says.

The suit against Bedrock, Garcia says, has drawn more speculation than it deserves.

"People want to make a big deal about it, but people have legal disagreements, and they go to court to decide who’s right," he said. "That doesn’t mean they’re burning bridges or want to go to war, it means there’s a legal question that needs to be resolved."

What it boils down to, he says, is that "people ought to pay their taxes."

I've heard a lot of folks justify this kind of behavior, claiming that Detroit shouldn't charge income tax because its city services are so poor. That car insurance rates are so high they've no other option. That a municipal income tax is a bad idea. That the city should be grateful for new residents.

That's all bunk, rationalization for doing something they know is wrong.

There's a whole bit I could do here about the rule of law, and the city's need to provide services to keep its tentative recovery going, but there's also this: A lot of longtime Detroiters look at new residents as arrivistes who, they suspect, want to claim the city's advantages without investing in its future.

When new residents dodge taxes, they prove those longtime residents right.

Nancy Kaffer is a columnist and member of the Free Press Editorial Board. Contact her: nkaffer@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rTKIRd