Buy Photo The state DEQ is proposing to revise the emissions permit for Severstal Steel in Dearborn to allow for some toxic pollutants such as lead, carbon monoxide, and PM10 (fine dust) to be doubled, tripled, quadrupled, even increased by more than 7200 percent. The new limits on the permit will reflect what's actually been emitted from the plant for years, so in that way it's not an increase in allowed pollution, they say. Thursday Feb. 20, 2014. Mandi Wright/Detroit Free Press (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Are you noticing a theme here? Because I'm noticing a theme here.

The Michigan Legislature is moving like a freight train on two bill packages that would introduce significantly less accountability into the way polluters and mines operate, weakening the oversight of the already weak-kneed Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.

That's the agency charged with ensuring that our state's air and water are clean, and that our soil isn't tainted with dangerous chemicals. It's an important job, and while it's also important to ensure that our state has a thriving economy, it's a balancing act. Because business can advocate for itself, it seems to me that an agency of state government should ride herd on business' worst impulses, and that quality of life for Michiganders should be the state's chief concern.

Some lawmakers don't see it that way.

State Sen. Tom Casperson, R-Esanaba, the sponsor of both packages, has a fundamental problem with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. Casperson explained to Free Press reporter Keith Matheny late last year that the state's environmental regulatory agency is too sympathetic to environmental concerns: "It's not rules and laws they [DEQ regulators] are following; it's an agenda. They're going to save the planet, no matter what."

But by the numbers, the DEQ isn't doing a particularly impressive job of industry-quashing and planet-saving: A House Fiscal Agency report on the bills found that in fiscal year 2017, the DEQ granted 99.5% of of permits, approving 7,447 and denying just 34, and that the previous year's approval rate was even higher.

Casperson: MDEQ oversight bills aim for better government

More: Can Michigan's polluters be trusted to self-regulate?

Kaffer: Sen. Casperson defends big biz from planet-saving MDEQ

Senate Bills 652, 653 and 654, which would create private-sector panels to oversee decisions made by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, passed the state House of Representatives this week. The bills originally passed by the state Senate earlier this year would have made those panels the final authority on many regulatory decisions. Because the House weakened the panels' authority — instead of giving them the final say on such decisions, the House legislation would provide an opportunity for appeal — the bills now return to the Senate for a concurrence vote.

As I reported earlier this year, environmental activists objected to these bills for what should be obvious reasons: Expecting panels dominated by members of the industries being regulated to make decisions in the best interests of all Michiganders seems foolhardy.

SB 839's most concerning provision is that it would allow mining companies to expand their underground operations without MDEQ review. It has passed both chambers, and has been presented to Gov. Rick Snyder, who has not yet signed it. Casperson told Michigan Radio that the legislation is intended for simple structures that shouldn't require an environmental vetting process, but environmental advocates say the bill's vague language would allow for significant underground expansion without appropriate review.

Paring unnecessary regulations is a thing that gets a lot of traction, and can actually be a good thing to do. But I am here to tell you it in these bills, it has officially run amok.

An environmental justice working group impaneled by Snyder after the Flint water crisis recently recommended the creation of an ombudsman to hear citizen complaints and establishment of a petition process by which residents could ask government to address environmental risks establish targets for improving environmental health in this state.

"I would say the bigger harm to our economy is the drag of having sick people," said Guy Williams, President and CEO of Detroiters Working for Environmental Justice and a member of that working group. Williams says that more than 18,000 person hours are lost each year to illness attributable to environmental pollution, a roughly $6 billion drain on the economy. "The cure is not to make DEQ less effective," he suggests, "but more."

The working group's recommendations, he adds, offer "true checks and balances, like a democracy."

Business can advocate for itself, and does, ably. So it seems to me that state government should advocate for the people it purports to represent.

Nancy Kaffer is a columnist and member of the Detroit Free Press Editorial Board. Contact her at: nkaffer@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2s6h5wo