(TALLAHASSEE, Fla.) – From June 2-10, Keep Florida Fishing® encourages anglers and boaters to celebrate National Fishing and Boating Week on the water. The annual event emphasizes the significant role recreational fishing and boating have in our state. License-free fishing days are also offered during National Fishing and Boating Week on Saturday, June 2 and Sunday, June 3 for saltwater fishing, and Saturday, June 9 and Sunday, June 10 for freshwater fishing to all Florida residents and tourists. The state offers a total of eight license-free fishing days in 2018 through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC). In addition to National Fishing and Boating Week and license-free fishing days, the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council (SAFMC) will unveil their new electronic fish reporting app and updated website, MyFishCount, in June.

“National Fishing and Boating Week serves as a celebration and annual reminder of just how important the recreational fishing and boating industries are to the state of Florida and throughout the country. We thank Gov. Scott and the FWC for supporting license-free fishing days as well as their ongoing support for Florida’s fishing and boating communities,” said Gary Jennings, Director of Keep Florida Fishing.

“With opportunities to fish even if you don’t have a license, National Fishing and Boating Week is the perfect opportunity for anglers of all skill levels to invite family and friends to join them on the water and share their love for fishing, boating and Florida’s natural resources,” said Kellie Ralston, Florida Fisheries Policy Director of the American Sportfishing Association.

According to the FWC, on license-free fishing days, “the fishing license requirement is waived for all recreational anglers (residents and non-residents). All other rules (e.g., seasons, bag and size limits) apply.”

In addition to enjoying Florida’s waters, Atlantic coast anglers are asked to report their catch and trips, whether successful or abandoned, by using MyFishCount. SAFMC partnered with the Snook and Gamefish Foundation to create the pilot project that encourages recreational anglers to voluntarily report their catches through MyFishCount.com or via the smartphone app. The reports will help improve data used to manage Florida’s fisheries while also creating a tool for anglers to review past logged trips and catches. Learn more about MyFishCount and how it works here.

To find out more about Florida fishing and boating activities during the week and beyond, go to https://www.takemefishing.org/florida/.

About Keep Florida Fishing®

Keep Florida Fishing® is an advocacy arm of the American Sportfishing Association with the goal of ensuring Florida anglers have clean waters, abundant fisheries and access to both. Florida is considered the ‘Fishing Capital of the World’ and home to more than three million licensed anglers, supporting 128,000 jobs, providing $9.6 billion in economic activity and contributing more than $53.3 million for fisheries conservation. Learn more at www.KeepFloridaFishing.org. Find Keep Florida Fishing on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest.