By StoryStudio

In a city like San Francisco, it’s easy to get into a rut. We all have our favorite Fog City haunts. But a place this vibrant has more to offer than just boring bars, mundane movie theaters, and commonplace clubs. It’s time to take your tedious night out and turn up the heat. For an exciting evening that’s classy, set your sights on Hayes Valley and the San Francisco Symphony.

Pick Your Poison

The San Francisco Symphony is one of the greatest orchestras in the world, and under music director Michael Tilson Thomas, it has gained international acclaim. The season’s schedule offers many experiences to choose from. Put the class in classical and take in a traditional performance, conducted by Thomas or one of the amazing guest conductors. For something different, experience film like never before, as the orchestra plays the score live while the film is projected onto the big screen. The SF Symphony calendar offers something for everyone.

Dress to Impress

You don’t need a floor-length gown to step foot in the symphony these days, but why not ditch the dull threads you wore to work? A cocktail dress will make you feel elegant and will elevate your special night out. For a look that is picture-perfect, make your way to Veer and Wander, just a ten-minute walk from Davies Symphony Hall. You can get a style or blowout that will make your look next-level.

Dine on Something Delectable

No classy night out is complete without a dining experience that leaves your taste buds tingling. There are a ton of restaurants near Davies Symphony Hall for pre- and post-performance dining. Check out Nojo, Hayes Valley’s new Ramen Tavern, where you can enjoy Artisanal Noodle and Small Plates prior to the show. Feeling French? Jardinière is an exceptional choice for a delicious dinner complete with foie gras or frog’s legs. A few blocks away, you can fill up on Zuni Café’s roast chicken and bread salad before you enjoy the philharmonic.

Choose the Champagne Experience

For a truly unforgettable night at the SF Symphony, preorder a champagne package for you and your special someone to enjoy before the concert. Pop the cork and toast to an evening of fine music and fun in the orchestra lobby or first-tier lobby of Davies Symphony Hall.

Make It a Staycation

If you aren’t ready to head home after an evening of elegant music, you don’t have to! Make the evening even more memorable by spending the night near Davies Symphony Hall. The Inn at the Opera is only a block and a half away, and can provide you and a guest with an intimate experience that you’ll never forget. The Four Seasons can make your fancy night even fancier, and the grandeur of the Fairmont will make your remarkable night even more unforgettable.

For more information on an evening with the San Francisco Symphony, go to www.sfsymphony.org. Last minute tickets start as low as $15!