kia

Kia Motors America names Michael Cole as COO May 29 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Kia Motors America has handed the COO reins to Michael Cole, who manned the same position for its European operation since November 2012.



First Shift: Marchionne chided PR chief for denying diesel cheating May 15 Marchionne chided PR chief for denying diesel cheating; Tesla driver: Autopilot on during crash; Appeal of smaller auto shows; Kia's diesel mild hybrid; NBA players take Waymo ride.



Kia Motors America COO Michael Sprague leaving company April 6 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Michael Sprague, the former Ford executive who notched a steady series of promotions in nearly a decade at Kia Motors America, is leaving the Korean automaker. Sprague, 52, Kia's COO since 2015, will step down April 17, Kia said in a statement. No successor has been appointed.



Sales rise 6.4% as spring season starts with a bang April 3 Author: David Phillips U.S. light-vehicle deliveries, behind higher discounts and fleet shipments, a surge in light-truck demand and an extra weekend of sales, rose 6.4 percent in March, topping expectations as the critical spring-selling season started off with a bang.



HYUNDAI/KIA: Hyundai drops 11%, Kia up 2.5% April 3 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Hyundai Motor America's March U.S. sales fell 11 percent from the year-earlier period.



Kia awards, new product create dealer optimism April 2 Author: Hannah Lutz Kia dealers are riding high on vehicle quality awards and new product, but they are concerned about dealership profitability.



A reconfigured K900 April 2 Kia’s second-generation K900, which debuted last week at the New York auto show, is a little longer and wider than its predecessor.



Kia refreshes 2 models for 2019 March 28 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Kia is upgrading its lineup with a trio of vehicles that will replace models that are losing traction: the Optima sedan, Sedona minivan and the upmarket K900 sedan.



Kia: Customer care, product keys to profit March 24 Author: Hannah Lutz Focus on new product and customer satisfaction to improve profitability, Kia executives told dealers here on Saturday.



Bolstered crossover lineup buoys Kia dealers March 22 Author: Hannah Lutz Kia's sales slipped in 2017, but with in-demand products rolling out this year, dealers are hopeful that sales and profitability will tick up.

