LAKEWOOD, Ohio -- A Lakewood councilman said several posters from a white supremacists group were discovered at bus stops along Clifton Boulevard over the Memorial Day weekend.

"This overtly racist, Nazi propaganda, in my view, is hate speech," Lakewood Councilman Tristan Rader posted on his website.

Rader said that someone posted the signs at stops along Clifton Boulevard without the knowledge of Greater Cleveland RTA, and should be ripped down by riders when they see them.

He's also asking for riders to take photos and report the signs to police.

The signs advertised the group Identify Evropa with the message "Let's become great again" in capital letters. The group defines itself as a descendants from Europe who take pride in their heritage.

"We embrace the idea that our identities are central to who we are, and take pride in our history and rich cultural heritage," according to the group's website. "At a time when every other group is free to stand behind its identity, we choose to assert ours as well."

The Anti-Defamation League has declared Identify Evropa as a white supremacist group and "group focused on the preservation of 'white American culture' and promoting white European identity."

The Southern Poverty Law Center similarly identified the group as that of an alt-right organization that is seeking to "recruit white, college-age men and transform them into the fashionable new face of white nationalism." The center says the group claims that it's not a racist organization, but is "interested in preserving Western culture."

The posters are not the first time hate speech has been found in Lakewood. Last year, homeowners on Belle Avenue discovered swastikas painted in their driveways and the windows busted out of their vehicles.

That incident occurred just days after an Ohio man crashed his car into a crowd killing a protester and injuring more than a dozen others in Charlottesville, Virginia. The protests marked a clash between white nationalists and other hate groups who went to Charlottesville to protest the removal of a Robert E. Lee statue. Violence erupted as the hate groups were met with counter-protests.

"We are a community that welcomes diversity," Rader said of Lakewood. "We are actively seeking to break down barriers that have caused hyper-segregation, lack of opportunity for minorities, disparity and many other serious issues relating to race. These posters are hateful and are promoting the exact opposite of what we are trying to achieve."

To comment on this story, please visit our crime and courts comments page.