land rover

The Empire Strikes Back May 28 Author: Richard Truett Tata has defied critics since buying the celebrated British brands from Ford Motor Co., turning them into one of the biggest automotive success stories in recent memory.



Ford set up JLR for success before 2008 sale May 28 Author: Richard Truett Like nearly all automotive success stories, Jaguar Land Rover's resurgence is rooted in engineering and design, but its previous owner, Ford, also deserves some credit.



JLR to spend $5.3 billion on new models, tech May 23 Jaguar Land Rover will spend about $6 billion in the current financial year on new models and technologies as the luxury carmaker looks to spur sales that grew at a slower pace.



JLR confirms 1,000 jobs to go as diesel sales slump April 16 Jaguar Land Rover said it will cut 1,000 jobs and reduce production at two UK factories as demand for diesel cars slumps because of higher taxes and a regulatory crackdown.



A design freeze on the biggest Defender yet April 16 Yet another outline of the next Land Rover Defender has appeared.



Next Defender likely to stick to boxy roots April 9 Author: Richard Truett During the opening of Jaguar Land Rover's new U.S. headquarters in Mahwah, N.J., the company peeled the curtain back just a little on the iconic off-road vehicle.



New products rev up Jaguar Land Rover dealers March 22 Author: Richard Truett Fresh off record Land Rover sales in 2017 and another solid year of growth for Jaguar, 2018 brings more new products, including low-production, high-performance vehicles.



What will Defender look like? March 19 A Land Rover designer says he wishes the new Defender would have bowed at the same time as Mercedes' G class.



LUXE LEADERSHIP March 12 Author: Nick Gibbs BMW and other brands used the Geneva auto show to stake claims in upper-luxury segments dominated by VW Group's sprawling yet integrated empire of upscale brands.



Range Rover price hits new heights March 12 The British, creators of the luxury SUV segment in 1970 with the original Range Rover, are attempting to fend off potential interlopers from Italy, Germany and elsewhere with an armada of superluxe off-roaders.



Goss leaves Jaguar Land Rover as automaker restructures sales; Braeuetigam promoted March 8 Author: David Jolley Jaguar Land Rover said marketing chief Felix Braeuetigam will take on the newly-created position of chief commercial officer, absorbing the duties of departing sales operations director Andy Goss.

