CLEVELAND, Ohio - The former May Co. department store in downtown Cleveland, a landmark-turned-eyesore on Public Square, is scheduled to reopen as apartments in June 2020.

The Cleveland Landmarks Commission unanimously approved the redevelopment plan Thursday, applauding Detroit-based developer Bedrock for bringing life to a project that's been languishing for years. A Bedrock affiliate bought the largely empty building last summer, putting the real estate arm of Dan Gilbert's Quicken Loans family of companies in command of a massive, challenging property that stagnated under a previous owner and eluded other suitors.

"Bedrock wants to make a statement with this building, to let it be the backdrop to Public Square that it wants to be," architect Brandon Kline told the commission, which reviews proposals that involve historic buildings and districts in the city.

Floor plans show 308 apartments, most of them one- and two-bedroom units, lining the building's second through ninth floors. Bedrock plans to tuck 519 parking spaces into the core and dark recesses of the building, in the basement and at the center of the second through fifth floors. That's a notable amount of parking in a downtown where projects aren't required, under city code, to accommodate a single car.

Kline, design development director for Streetsboro-based Geis Companies, said some of the parking - about 120 spaces in the basement, potentially - will be open to the public.

"We do believe that there is still strong demand for parking downtown," Ken Till, vice president of development for Bedrock in Cleveland, said during a phone interview. "We're not concerned that it won't be fully utilized."

Till and other Bedrock executives talked up retail opportunities at the project during a major shopping center convention in Las Vegas this week. The May Co. building already houses three ground-floor tenants, on Euclid Avenue: Taco Bell Cantina, the Pura Vida restaurant and Cuyahoga Community College's hospitality management center.

Floor plans call for 40,000 additional square feet of retail, including a rooftop space that Till hopes will lure a "high-quality, food-and-beverage" tenant. Other retailers would face Euclid and Prospect and flank an interior corridor cutting through the building's first floor, which spans more than an acre.

Till wouldn't provide rent projections for the apartments, beyond saying that Bedrock believes rates will be above $2 per square foot. Downtown apartments currently rent for an average of $1.52 per square foot - $1,520 a month for a 1,000-square-foot living space, say - according to a recent report from the nonprofit Downtown Cleveland Alliance.

"We're optimistic about where the market is headed," Till said.

The project, funded in part using federal tax credits for historic preservation and a rare, $25 million state historic tax credit for so-called "catalytic" redevelopments, requires Bedrock to return much of the building's exterior to its department-store glory. Kline said workers will replace 1,050 pieces of terra cotta; restore the clock tower, including a functioning clock; and illuminate the facades, including the parapet sign bearing the May Co. name.

The historic, frosted-glass windows will be consolidated on the building's second and third floors. Bedrock plans to install new windows on the upper floors and to reopen bricked-in windows on the eastern side of the building. On Prospect, bi-folding glass garage doors will look like storefronts when they're shut, in a creative compromise between preservation and utility.

"Here's an excellent example of a sensitive and appropriate adaptive reuse," Laura Bala, a commission member, said during Thursday's meeting.

Geis Construction started interior demolition at the May Co. building early this year. Till said Bedrock is "full steam ahead" and "adequately capitalized" for the project, but he wouldn't talk in detail about financing. Bedrock is looking at the city's residential property-tax abatement program, which offers 15 years of tax breaks on new and renovated housing that meets certain green standards, but the developer hasn't made a firm decision on applying for the incentive.

The May Co. project does not include the adjoining, empty building at 2025 Ontario St., which was part of the historic department-store complex. Bedrock also owns that building, but Till said the company wants to get through the bigger May Co. makeover first. Eventually, 2025 Ontario could become office or residential space, with retail on the first floor, he said.

As for Bedrock's other downtown holdings, including the vacancy-plagued Avenue at Tower City shopping mall? Bedrock is working on a revitalization strategy, but Till isn't ready to drop any hints.

"Stay tuned," he said.