German speciality chemical manufacturer Lanxess is planning to invest €20m for the construction of a new high-performance plastics plant in Changzhou, China.

The new plant is scheduled to commence production from the second quarter of 2019 and will have the capacity to create 25,000 metric tonnes of Durethan and Pocan branded plastics for the automotive sector, as well as the electric and electronics industries.

The automotive industry is reported to be one of the most important segments for Lanxess due to the consistent demand for high-performance plastics within the sector.



Lanxess’ plastics are regularly used to replace metal parts in motor vehicles and therefore contribute to reductions in weight, fuel consumption and emissions.

Lanxess Board of Management chairman Matthias Zachert said: “China is the largest automotive market in the world and is setting the pace for electromobility.

“We want to support growth in this important region and are expanding our presence in the high-performance plastic segment.”

“We are expanding our global network of compounding plants with the new production site, and are continuing to consistently focus our portfolio on high-value plastics.”

The company currently operates the Binjiang Chemical Park in Changzhou. It also runs plants for leather chemicals and synthetic rubber, which currently employ around 350 people.

In addition, Lanxess operates an existing high-performance plastics facility in Wuxi, China.

The company’s new plant is expected to create approximately 35 new jobs and further strengthen the company’s presence in the region.

Lanxess high-performance materials business unit head Michael Zobel said: “At the same time, we are expanding our global network of compounding plants with the new production site, and are continuing to consistently focus our portfolio on high-value plastics.”

Image: LANXESS is building a new plant for high-performance plastics at the Bianjing Chemical Park in Changzhou. Photo: courtesy of LANXESS AG.