The Los Angeles Police Department is investigating 52 complaints of sexual misconduct made against USC’s longtime campus gynecologist — and detectives believe there could be even more.

see also University gynecologist kept job for years despite sexual misconduct claims A University of Southern California gynecologist accused of serial sexual...

Speaking at a press conference Tuesday night, LAPD officials urged anyone who may have been victimized by Dr. George Tyndall to contact authorities as soon as possible.

“We are empathetic and ready to listen,” explained Assistant Chief Beatrice Girmala.

Tyndall, 72, was accused earlier this month of sexual assault and harassment by more than a dozen women.

The former students spoke to the LA Times about the alleged abuse and some have decided to sue USC for negligence and intentional infliction of emotional distress — claiming the school did nothing about the doctor’s behavior, despite years of complaints.

USC President C.L. Max Nikias stepped down last Friday amid the uproar and the accusations against Tyndall wound up landing on the desks of LAPD detectives on that very same day, according to officials.

So far, the department has received the names of 52 women who have accused the once-respected physician of inappropriate contact. Thirty-nine were provided to investigators by USC and 13 others contacted the LAPD directly, officials said.

But that might just be the tip of the iceberg.

“Dr. Tyndall saw some 10,000 students probably over the course of his career, which spanned from 1989 to 2017,” Capt. Billy Hayes, of the LAPD’s Robbery-Homicide Division, said Tuesday.

“So we believe that with only 52 people coming forward at this point in time, that’s probably not an accurate representation of the people that saw him and the potential individuals that might have been victims.”

see also USC president will step down amid gynecologist sex scandal LOS ANGELES — The president of the University of Southern...

The allegations against Tyndall span from 1990 to 2016, which is basically his entire career.

Detectives from the Robbery-Homicide Division have reached out to the California Medical Board and been speaking with local gynecologists to try to determine whether they warrant criminal charges.

“In mid-May, news broke of allegations brought forth by faculty and students within the University of Southern California against Dr. George Tyndall — a gynecologist there at USC whose behaviors and practices appear to go beyond the norms of the medical profession and gynecological examinations,” Girmala said. “As the LAPD works with the University of Southern California, its board, staff, faculty, and very importantly, student community — both past and present — we wanted to personally outreach to those who may have been impacted and believe they may have been the victim of criminal conduct by Dr. Tyndall.”

Girmala added, “We sincerely realize that victims have very great difficulty in recounting such intimate issues to investigators … We are here today, primarily to outreach … and hopefully we can have the victims out there in the community hear our message.”

Officials have asked people to contact police at (213)-486-6910 if they have been abused or mistreated by Tyndall in any way.

“The LAPD stands ready to listen, respond, investigate and ultimately work with prosecutors where the facts may lead us,” Girmala said. “We cannot do this without your help.”