The day has arrived, it’s your big moment to impress an interviewer by talking about your accomplishments and building rapport, and out of the blue, here comes a question that seems out of order. What’s the next step, how do you handle it without jeopardizing the interview?

Being asked inappropriate interview questions probably happens more than you know, on a regular basis. Most of the questions are not from an intentional standpoint but out of a lack of knowledge.

Not all interviewers are trained in interviewing skills, and for various reasons, can ask questions based on curiosity alone. Even though interest from an interviewer is a good sign, it does not excuse an interviewer from being rude.

Inappropriate questions are ones that really have nothing to do with the job itself and can easily lean towards being illegal. Nonetheless, you need to be prepared for some “out of the ballpark” questions.

As a candidate who is interested in the position, it pays not to get flustered. Take a minute or so to gather your thoughts and ponder how the question relates to the job. Ask the interviewer to help you understand the question regarding their concerns or reasons; clarifying it will help them as well as you.

Inappropriate questions often occur when interviewers stray off the interviewing script and start adding their own input with the set of questions.

Without a doubt, these types of questions are uncomfortable and places you in an awkward situation. You basically have several ways to respond: You can be confrontational and confront the interviewer, but this tactic puts you at risk for embarrassing the interviewer. You could refuse to answer the question that will most likely leave a negative impression with the interviewer.

A more astute option would be to redirect the question, taking it off a personal issue and refocusing it on the job itself. This strategy helps you focus on your skills needed for the job and keeps the interviewer moving towards viewing your background as a match for their needs.

Always keep in mind that you are interviewing the employer as well. An interview is a two-way conversation that can be full of red flags and information to help you decide if this position, culture of the organization or style of management will be a good decision for you.

One of your challenges during the interview is to listen. Pay close attention to your reactions to questions and information shared. After the interview is finished, write your observations down.

Your first reaction is usually a good measuring stick on chemistry developed. A good interviewer will share the conversation with you, they will ask thoughtful open-ended questions that are focused on your skill sets and match for the position. Questions about your leadership style, personal strengths, values and weaknesses are all part of a good interview.

In the end, no matter how you answer the question, inappropriate questions can be good indicators that you might not want to work for this employer.

What strategies did you use in answering inappropriate questions during an interview? Did it change your interest in working for the employer?