lexus

Bracken retiring from Lexus, to be succeeded by deputy David Christ May 22 Author: Alexa St. John David Christ, who switched from the Toyota Division to Lexus at the start of this year, will succeed his boss, Jeff Bracken, who is retiring as head of Lexus' United States operations after 40 years with Toyota.



Bland no more: Lexus ES gets image makeover May 7 Author: Laurence Iliff With car sales falling across all segments in the U.S. and luxury sedans scrambling to differentiate themselves from competitors, Lexus' "executive sedan" is getting its star turn.



LUXURY: Mercedes maintains luxe lead over BMW, Lexus May 1 Mercedes-Benz USA, propelled by strong demand for SUVs, topped the luxury U.S. sales race in April and continues to outpace its nearest rivals, No. 2 BMW and No. 3 Lexus, year to date.



2019 Lexus ES: 7 things to know May 1 A new engine, new hybrid powertrains and a first for the ES -- a 350 F Sport model -- highlight the changes Lexus is making to the redesigned midsize sedan for 2019.



First Shift: Quiet Tesla makes noise in Beijing April 25 In Beijing: BMW previews Chinese export; Nissan juices up Sentra; Lexus redesigns ES; Audi Q5 goes long; 'Sensuous' Hyundai; Quiet Tesla draws a crowd; Alibaba's automotive AI partners.



Lexus ES redesign goes sportier with F Sport edition April 24 Author: Hans Greimel Lexus is so confident in the performance chops of its redesigned ES sedan that it is giving the remake of one of its frumpiest nameplates an F Sport version for the first time.



Next-gen Lexus ES features new contours, tweaked grille April 23 Author: Laurence Iliff The next-generation Lexus ES sedan, which will debut at the Beijing auto show, will feature a more stylized body with a more prominent version of the brand's polarizing spindle grille.



Lexus' next-gen ES sports new contours, tweaked spindle grille April 18 Author: Laurence Iliff The next-generation Lexus ES sedan, which debuts at the Beijing auto show next week, will feature a more stylized body with a prominent version of the brand's polarizing spindle grille.



Lexus' luxury conundrum: Is UX the fix? April 8 Author: Laurence Iliff Lowering the average age of the Lexus buyer depends on attracting a younger demographic and on generating enough sales volume to move the needle.



TOYOTA: Third straight increase; Lexus slips April 3 Author: Laurence Iliff Toyota Motor Sales USA said sales rose 3.5 percent in March from a year earlier, for three straight months of gains.



Lexus sells $235 mugs to promote test drives April 2 Lexus' latest Tokyo lounge is equal parts car showroom, gourmet's delight and upscale boutique. The idea is to lure in high-rollers in hopes of giving them a Lexus test drive.

