lincoln

BACK FROM THE BRINK May 14 Author: Michael Martinez In mid-2011, a rival CEO snidely suggested someone should "sprinkle holy water" on Lincoln. But instead of planning for a funeral, the brand's executives were quietly crafting a plan that would eventually lead Ford's luxury marque back to relevance.



FORD: Trucks can't overcome weaker car, utility volume May 1 Author: Michael Martinez U.S. sales of the Ford F-series were a bright spot in April, up 3.5 percent for the nameplate's 12th consecutive month of year-over-year gains. Ford's overall U.S. sales fell 4.5 percent behind lower fleet, car and utility demand



Ford shifts U.S. sales leaders following departures May 1 Author: Michael Martinez Ford appointed marketing executive Andrew Frick to replace Dianne Craig as director of sales in the United States while naming Craig to fill a void created by the sudden departure of two top executives at the FordDirect joint venture with dealers.



Great potential for Falotico at Lincoln April 30 What most impressed me reading “Big switch for Ford credit whiz” (Feb. 26) was Joy Falotico’s “very deep relationships with the dealers” — a sign she really understands the business.



GM dangles $10,000 Cadillac Escalade discount to fend off Lincoln Navigator April 16 General Motors is stepping up its defense of the Cadillac Escalade SUV by offering $10,000 discounts to some current customers to keep them from straying to the hot-selling new Lincoln Navigator.



First Shift: Cadillac battles Lincoln with $10K SUV spiff April 16 GM dangles $10K spiff to keep Escalade owners from Navigator; Ghosn: Renault-Nissan options open; JLR to ax 1,000 jobs; SUVs, EVs star in Beijing; Record utility-vehicle loyalty.



First Shift: Lincoln to build 5 models in China - report April 12 Lincoln to build 5 models in China - report; M-B plans full-size EV; Family of Tesla crash victim hires law firm; CEO: Uber still believes in AVs; Fast facts on new Ford Focus.



Ford to ramp up Lincoln rollout in China to catch rivals, report says April 12 Lincoln plans to build as many as five new vehicles in China by 2022, two sources told Reuters, in a move to expand sales in the world's largest vehicle market and blunt the impact of trade disputes.



Aeronautics, baby Navigator and better grip: What people are saying about Lincoln Aviator April 10 Author: Jack Walsworth Here is a roundup of initial Aviator reaction from the automotive media.



First Shift: Lincoln quietly cuts back fleet business April 9 Lincoln quietly curtails fleet business; GM Korea may extinguish Spark; What GM could gain by losing Chevy Sonic; Likeliest car subscribers? Young consumers with deep pockets.



Lincoln dials back fleet business April 8 Author: Michael Martinez Lincoln has cut deliveries to daily rental companies such as Hertz and Avis and has dialed back on providing company cars, both internally and to other businesses.

