Lockheed to provide ballistic tracking radar to U.S., foreign countries



by James Laporta



Washington (UPI) May 24, 2018



The U.S. government and multiple foreign countries are set to receive phased array radar for intercepting ballistic missiles.

The contract award, from U.S. Army Contracting Command, is valued at more than $282 million and enables Lockheed Martin to provide "phased array tracking on radar to intercept advanced capability-3 missile support center post-production support," the Pentagon announced on Wednesday.

Phased array radar systems are used to scan, identify and track both enemy planes and incoming ballistic missiles from the ground level extending to the air.

The countries expected to benefit from the contract award under the foreign military sale are Netherlands, Germany, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates and Republic of Korea, according to the Defense Department.

Work locations and funding will be determined with each order request, the Pentagon said, with the period of performance expiring in May 2019.



Related Links

Learn about missile defense at SpaceWar.com

Learn about nuclear weapons doctrine and defense at SpaceWar.com

All about missiles at SpaceWar.com

Learn about the Superpowers of the 21st Century at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Riyadh (AFP) May 24, 2018

