Buy Photo The new 2018 Toyota Camry XSE is unveiled during the 2017 North American International Auto Show at Cobo Center in Detroit. Toyota is banking on the mid-size car market as Ford and Fiat Chrysler focus their efforts on new classes of car-like SUVs. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Reports of the sedan’s death are exaggerated.

As Ford and Fiat Chrysler exit the business of selling traditional midsize, compact and subcompact cars, Honda, Toyota and Nissan are leaning in, convinced there’s plenty of life left in a market segment that still accounts for 4-5 million sales a year.

While the Ford Taurus is on life support and the Chrysler 200 belongs to history, the Honda Accord, Toyota Camry and Nissan Altima are in it to win it.

“Kelley Blue Book’s first-quarter Brand Watch report, which measures brand health based on a dozen or so characteristics, shows 42% of KBB shoppers still consider sedans,” Autotrader senior analyst Michelle Krebs said. “The Honda Accord and Toyota Camry are Nos. 2 and No. 4 among most-considered vehicles by shoppers. The Honda Civic ranks No. 12.”

In what amounts to a neon sign flashing “Dear Ford: Bag the Taurus, Fusion and Focus,” every other vehicle on KBB’s consumer hot list was an SUV.

Camry, Accord and Altima were Nos. 1-3 in U.S. midsize car sales last year. The Honda Civic was America’s No. 2 selling car, trailing only the Camry. The compact Toyota Corolla was No. 3, Accord No. 4. All four were among America’s 10 best-selling vehicles.

More from Mark Phelan:

Here's why the Ford Mustang is the No. 1 movie car

First Drive:2019 Chevy Silverado adds turbo-4 engine, new fuel-saving tech

Honda is banking on the mid-size car market with cars like the 2018 Honda Accord Touring 2.0T as Ford and Fiat Chrysler focus their efforts on new classes of car-like SUVs. (Photo: Honda)

SUVs, pickups and minivans hit a record 67% of the U.S. car market last year and are widely expected to reach 70% this year. Car sales are approaching free fall, forecast to drop from 6.4 million in 2016 to 4.87 in 2020, IHS Markit senior analyst Stephanie Brinley said.

Still, there's bank to be made if you’re a leader in a 4.9-million vehicle segment, especially when the number of competitors decreases as the weaker players drop out.

“We’re not running away from cars," said Toyota marketing manager Rick LoFaso, pointing out that the Camry has gained market share among midsize sedans this year. “A really great product will attract customers even in a declining segment.”

Toyota, Honda and Nissan have led the family-car business for years. They’re not going to abandon that just because SUVs are the cool new kid in class.

“We are absolutely committed to passenger cars,” said Jay Joseph, Honda assistant vice president for product planning. “The trend to SUVs will continue, but it’s hard to say how long or how much.”

Buy Photo As Ford and Fiat Chrysler shift away from the mid-size car market, General Motors will continue to build cars like the Chevrolet Cruze, seen at the North American International Auto Show at Cobo Center in downtown Detroit, to compete with Toyota, Honda and Nissan. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

Chevrolet, unlike Ford and Fiat Chrysler, will continue to build and sell traditional family cars to compete with Camry, Accord, Corolla et al. Chevy’s Malibu and Cruze models are new and competitive enough to hang on and see if they still have a business case when the shift to SUVs ends. General Motors won’t invest in updates to their styling and technology as often as it did when those cars were at the heart of the market, though.

“There’s still demand for cars,” Brinley said. “If you do them well, you can do them profitably, and fewer competitors makes it easier for the survivors to be profitable.”

But nobody would be shocked if full-size front-wheel-drive cars like the Chevrolet Impala and Toyota Avalon shuffle off to oblivion alongside the Taurus. The market for family sedans that size was disappearing even before the shift to SUVs became a car-crushing avalanche.

While Fiat Chrysler, Ford and GM shift investment and development to new classes of car-like SUVs, Japan’s Big 3 will keep introducing new cars at nearly the same rate they did when sedans ruled the road.

The outlook for Korea’s Hyundai and Kia is less clear. Their midsize and compact cars sell at rates not unlike Ford’s cars, but the brands don’t have an established leadership position in SUVs and pickups.

The auto industry’s little secret is that all major brands will probably move toward vehicles that split the difference between a car and traditional SUVs — a little taller than a sedan, with a big open cargo space instead of a trunk and available all-wheel drive.

Automakers will probably try to satisfy the desire for SUV looks and the need to offer low-cost entry-level models with SUV-ish front-drive vehicles like the $17,990 Nissan Kicks, or the old Pontiac Vibe and Toyota Matrix.

“They’ll face challenges for profitability just like small cars have,” Brinley said.

Contact Mark Phelan: mmphelan@freepress.com or 313-222-6731. Follow him on Twitter @mark_phelan.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rS9zG0