Tulsa, Okla . – Lowrance , a world-leader in fishing electronics since 1957, continued its domination of America’s tournament-fishing circuit as Lowrance Pro Jordan Lee mounted an epic comeback to claim the 2018 Bassmaster Classic Championship. Held on South Carolina’s Lake Hartwell, March 16-18, Lee’s winning three-day total of 47 pounds, 1 ounce, comes on the heels of his 2017 victory on Lake Conroe, Texas, and marks the seventh straight Classic championship win for a competitor using Lowrance’s HDS fishfinder/chartplotter displays. The 26-year-old Guntersville, Ala., native is also the youngest angler in Bassmaster history to win the tournament two years in a row.

In the Classic’s final standings, six of the top 12 competitors relied on Lowrance HDS Carbon fishfinder/chartplotters to navigate and find key fish-holding areas. In all, more than 50 percent of the 52 anglers competing in this year’s Bassmaster Classic chose Lowrance HDS – that’s more than all other competitive units combined.

Armed with Lowrance HDS Carbon displays and StructureScan 3D, Lee ended the first day with five bass weighing 18 pounds, 10 ounces, and the second day with another five weighing 12 pounds, 2 ounces. Fighting his way back from sixth place on the final day, Lee weighed in another five-bass limit at 16 pounds, 5 ounces for a winning total of 47 pounds, 1 ounce – a full pound more than the closest competitor.

“I’ve been running Lowrance since I started, and this year I have a HDS Carbon 16 at the dash and two Carbon 12’s at the bow, and that setup, for me, means confidence,” said Lee. “I can clearly see what I am looking at, and when I would

catch one, my screen would light up (with fish targets) as the other’s followed him in. I backed off a bit and noticed that those fish stayed around the area, and I was able to capitalize and catch a couple more. StructureScan to me is the clearest. It allowed me to find a number of places like that this week and that was really key for me.”

LEARN MORE ABOUT THE LOWRANCE HDS

“Jordan’s come-from-behind performance on Lake Hartwell is not only a testament to his dedication and skill, but proves yet again that the world’s best anglers rely on Lowrance HDS,” said Leif Ottosson, CEO, Navico. “We congratulate him on another amazing showing, and are thrilled to have played an integral role in his second consecutive win and the seventh straight victory for a Lowrance HDS angler.”

For more information on Lowrance and its tournament-winning fishfinding technology, including the award-winning HDS Carbon, StructureScan 3D, and all new, free software featuring groundbreaking FishRevealTM and High-Visibility Color functionality, please visit www.lowrance.com

For a limited time, anglers can also get up to $500 cash back on HDS Carbon in the HDS Ultimate Upgrade, going on now until April 30. For more information on the HDS Ultimate Upgrade, please visit www.lowrance.com/offers/