Editor's note: GM's Maven brand no longer participates in Lyft's "Express Drive" program. An earlier version of this story contained an outdated fact about the status of that affiliation.

Lyft plans to consolidate its Detroit operations and open a new permanent location in the city -- a project expected to benefit its drivers and likely interest its local automaker partners.

The Detroit location of the San Francisco ride-hailing company is a part of Lyft's $100 million nationwide investment in improving its services.

Zachary Kizer, Lyft communications specialist, told Automotive News Tuesday that the company is "thrilled by how Detroit has welcomed Lyft into the community" and looks forward to providing more information on its hub in the coming months.

Automaker ties

The Detroit plans by Lyft -- in which General Motors has a 9 percent stake -- could further several automakers' interests in launching commercial autonomous vehicles starting next year. GM made an investment in Lyft in January 2016, looking to bolster its ride-hailing efforts by deploying self-driving vehicles through the platform.

But GM also has other initiatives investing in and competing with Lyft. They include the automaker's acquisition of Cruise Automation for autonomous vehicle development and plans to deploy self-driving taxis by next year, the launch of Maven brand for short-term car rentals and a partnership between Maven and Uber Technologies Inc. -- a Lyft competitor.

GM has earned roughly a 50 percent return on its $500 million investment with the company, though the automaker has been vague about the extent of the partnership. Dave Roman, GM's executive director of corporate communications, directed inquiries about the new hub to Lyft but told Automotive News Tuesday that the automaker had no role in Lyft's new downtown operations.

"We have no involvement in Lyft's announcement about their ride-sharing operations they are setting up in several cities including Detroit," Roman said in a statement.

Still, AutoPacific analyst Dave Sullivan told Automotive News the investment will benefit the city and the automakers investing in the company regardless of its primary focus in driver services.

"Lyft consolidating their efforts in Detroit can help lift the morale of their drivers and also of their riders," Sullivan wrote in an email. "Lyft has been able to avoid a lot of the negative publicity that Uber has been dealing with and any investment by Lyft in Detroit is a positive sign as Maven, Ford, and GM continue to invest in new ways for us to get from A to B."

Other interest

GM isn't the only Detroit-area auto company with a stake in Lyft. Crosstown rival Ford Motor Co. also established a partnership with the company in September 2017 that includes Lyft deploying Ford human-driven vehicles and self-driving vehicles into ride-hailing fleets by 2021. With Ford's Dearborn headquarters just 10 miles from the heart of the city, Ford sees its initial partnership as necessary to its goal of commercializing autonomous vehicle technology and expects to benefit further from Lyft's new hub. Ford's partnership came nearly two years after GM's investment in Lyft, and both companies have said their investments operate independently of those of their competitors.

An investment unit of Google parent company Alphabet Inc., which also partners with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles through self-driving unit Waymo, also funds and partners with Lyft.

These investments and partnerships have all made the self-driving testing landscape with ride-hailing services more competitive in the city.

Office details

The new office will be 3,000 to 5,000 square feet and open by the fall, said Elliot Darvick, general manager of Lyft Detroit. Lyft's 10 full-time local employees, stationed at Tech Town and 2727 Second Ave. in Midtown, will work out of the space.

Darvick would not disclose the address or neighborhood of the new space, saying negotiations are not finalized. He said he was unsure how much money would be invested in build-out of the office.

Once open, Lyft's new hub will function like the 12 others the company operates across the country. The $100 million investment will bring the number of hubs to around 30.

The Detroit hub will have a "full storefront" and function as a "driver service center" and local administrative headquarters for the company, Darvick said. Through the hub, drivers will receive assistance from a support team and discounts on vehicle services such as inspections and oil changes. The Detroit hub will also be used to host classes and special events and as community space.

Lyft Detroit has signed a deal with Belle Tire, a discount tire and auto maintenance company headquartered in Allen Park, Mich., to offer its drivers free vehicle inspections, which are mandatory to drive for Lyft. It has a similar deal in place with Pep Boys, headquartered in Philadelphia.

Lyft's new investment planned for Detroit comes amid a slew of sponsorship deals and partnerships, including with Detroit City FC, MusicTown Detroit and the Detroit Department of Transportation. Its main competitor, Uber, is growing exposure at a similar clip.

Darvick declined to say how many drivers Lyft has in Detroit but said monthly ride volume has grown fivefold since 2016, and "one could assume we scaled the driver base accordingly." He said there are plans to expand employee count at the future hub but gave no specifics.

Darvick said, "I think the growth has shown us there's a true demand for ride-sharing in the Motor City."

Kurt Nagl is a reporter for Crain's Detroit Business.