Chris Trombley of Biringham walks her mini goldendoodle Coco Chane along what would be Maple Road at Old Woodward, both of which are torn up for construction. (Photo: Dan Dean | hometownlife.com)

Work is progressing on a $7-million reconstruction project of Old Woodward in Birmingham.

The city said the work is 40% complete as contractors move forward with infrastructure work under the road, including switching old water service lines to the new ones.

The city's goal of having the work done in late July/early August is within reach, said Kevin Byrnes, the city's communications director.

"That is certainly the anticipation," he said. "This is the most difficult phase of the project, the underground infrastructure."

Soon, work will begin on the north end of the project that will make Old Woodward look like a road again. Crews will begin building the stone base of the road this month on the road north of Maple, with the goal of laying concrete as early as the beginning of June.

Michigan Department of Transportation's work on Woodward Avenue, between 14 Mile and Big Beaver/Quarton, also continues, Byrnes said.

Once complete, Old Woodward will sport new underground infrastructure and several new above-ground streetscape enhancements, including new electrical work that will provide more options for downtown lighting and 21st Century needs, such as mobile charging stations.

Kellogg Park fountain is back on but plans to replace it stall

Plymouth's aging Kellogg Park fountain, shut down late last year because of mechanical woes, is back on after workers made repairs.

City Manager Paul Sincock said a pump that failed because of debris has been repaired, allowing the city to turn the 50-year-old fountain back on just as warm weather is bringing more people to the downtown park, a popular gathering spot.

The Kellogg Park fountain is working again. (Photo: Bill Bresler | hometownlife.com)

"It's one of those quality-of-life issues," Sincock said.

Plans had been to to remove it and replace. Plans stalled when a contractor's bid on the work topped the $1.5 million mark. That's more than twice what a local foundation had allocated for the project.

The new fountain design, unveiled last August by Northville-based Russell Design, came after the late Jack Wilcox wanted his legacy to be a new fountain in honor of his parents. The Wilcox Foundation agreed to allocate $700,000.

It wasn't clear when decisions might be made about the fountain's future.

Dearborn luxury apartments and townhomes get an upgrade

Fairlane Woods Estate Apartment Homes has completed more than $3 million in renovations, 30 years after opening its doors, the complex's management company said in a news release.

The complex of one-, two- and 3-bedroom apartment homes and townhouses was built in 1988 on 130 rolling acres of the former grounds of the Henry Ford Estate in Dearborn.

Improvements range from new stainless-steel kitchen appliances, granite countertops, flooring, light fixtures and kitchen cabinets to new windows, patio doors and screendoors, clubhouse upgrades, exterior painting and HVAC and water heater replacement.

The homes are managed by Marquette Management Inc., is a real estate management company that owns, operates, and rents boutique apartments in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, and Texas and is based in Naperville, Ill.

Hometownlife.com contributed to this report.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2shudyR