Buy Photo The Majestic Theatre complex is located at 4120 Woodward Ave in Detroit. Photographed Feb. 5, 2008. (Photo: Regina H. Boone, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

One of Detroit's longest-running entertainment venues is set for an eye-catching overhaul.

Work has begun on a $1 million renovation of the 105-year-old Majestic Theatre complex, a project that will ultimately include a new art-deco facade and marquee, a curb-facing box office and an expanded main theater with a restored ceiling and acoustical treatment.

The 27-year-old Majestic Cafe at the front of the Woodward Avenue complex has been permanently closed, and will give way to a significantly expanded lobby area and 50-foot bar. On Tuesday afternoon, the former cafe space had already been gutted and workers were preparing to demolish a wall connected to the existing lobby.

The former Majestic Cafe space has already been gutted as it is converted to a lobby and bar area. (Photo: Greg Bowens on behalf of Majestic Theatre)

Read more:

All of the Majestic's other facilities will remain open during the six-month construction project, including the Majestic Theatre, Garden Bowl and Sgt. Pepperoni's Pizzeria on the first level, and the Magic Stick music club and Alley Deck upstairs.

Theater officials also revealed that AEG Presents, the country's second-biggest concert company, has signed on to exclusively book the Majestic Theatre. The deal could bring more than 100 shows annually to the room, more than double the number in recent years, said Dave Zainea, whose family has owned the Majestic since 1946.

The Majestic Theatre typically hosts mid-level rock and pop touring acts. AEG also operates the 2,000-seat Royal Oak Music Theatre and books shows at Detroit's 4,400-seat Masonic Temple Theatre.

"The timing is right," Zainea said the renovation project, citing the AEG deal and an ongoing Midtown resurgence that has included new housing, restaurants and mixed-use office space. "This will bring a synergy on Woodward to our block of colleagues."

Majestic Theatre owner Dave Zainea stands on the theater's newly installed stage floor in Detroit. (Photo: Greg Bowens on behalf of Majestic Theatre)

The Majestic's front makeover will include a marquee in the style of the 1935 sign that once graced the building, along with a limestone and black granite facade.

"We need curb appeal," Zainea said. "The venue now is unrecognizable."

The main Majestic Theatre has just been outfitted with maple flooring on the stage and a new high-end PA system. When work is complete, capacity will grow from 1,000 to about 1,300, along with expanded restrooms and remade dressing rooms backstage.

Tall drapes that now line the walls will come down, leaving an interior of exposed brick, and an acoustical engineer will help outfit paneling to improve sound in the room. A bar at the back of the room will be lengthened, and an existing side bar will be torn down to accommodate a new VIP seating area.

The main stage at the Majestic Theatre in Detroit, May 22, 2018. (Photo: Greg Bowens on behalf of Majestic Theatre)

The expanded space will allow the theater to host more special events, such as weddings and corporate functions, Zainea said.

The makeover follows the 2016 restoration of the Magic Stick rock club upstairs, following the room's short reign as the dance club Populux.

The Majestic Cafe, opened in 1991, had been struggling since QLINE track construction jammed up Woodward Avenue starting in 2013, Zainea said.

Even with opening of the light-rail system last year — including a stop nearby — the restaurant failed to get its footing back.

"I don't want to go back into that daily, full-time restaurant business," said Zainea.

Contact Detroit Free Press music writer Brian McCollum: 313-223-4450 or bmccollum@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LoMZwP