A man who court records show had a long history of mental illness and drug abuse attacked and killed his parents and then took his life in their Winfield home last week, police said Tuesday.

Karl Clinkenbeard and his parents, Clyde and Nancy Clinkenbeard, were found dead on May 21, all from multiple injuries from a sharp-edged object, police said later that week.

Tuesday evening, authorities announced their conclusion that Karl Clinkenbeard, 50, was the perpetrator, attacking his parents and then apparently killing himself.

Police said the attack was “most likely” prompted by Karl Clinkenbeard learning that his parents intended to remove him from their Jefferson Street home.

Karl Clinkenbeard carried out the attack sometime between noon and 1:15 p.m. May 20, police said. A neighbor said her husband peered inside a window the next morning and discovered the bodies of two family members after becoming concerned that lights were on and a family dog had been left out.

Neighbors said Clyde Clinkenbeard, 76, and Nancy, 77, had lived there for more than 30 years.

Police said they were called to the home the day before the attack for what they described as a family disturbance. That incident involved Karl Clinkenbeard and another relative who was not related to the dispute between Karl and his parents and was not present when they were killed, authorities said.

But court records indicate that Karl Clinkenbeard had numerous run-ins with the law as he struggled for decades with mental illness and drug use.

He had a long history of misdemeanor convictions in DuPage County, including for drug possession, driving under the influence and domestic battery, court records show. He also had two felony convictions, one for a 1988 burglary and another in 1990 for possession of a weapon by a felon, specifically a loaded .22-caliber pistol, according to the records.

The records also indicate he began smoking marijuana at 14, drinking at 15, and by 17 was consuming a case or more of beer a day. He also dabbled with cocaine, PCP and other narcotics, according to the records.

As part of the 1990 case, he was sentenced to 30 months probation, as well as two weeks in the Elgin Mental Health Center, according the records.

His most recent conviction stemmed from a 2013 domestic battery for punching a male relative in the chin, according to the records. At the time, he was unemployed and living with his parents in their Winfield home.

Over the years, Clinkenbeard spent time in various mental health facilities, sometimes as a sentencing condition. In 1989, he was diagnosed as bipolar, a condition that was exacerbated by his heavy drug and alcohol use, according to the records.

In 1991, the records show he was admitted to the now-closed Tinley Park Mental Health Center following a suicide attempt, and was prescribed antidepressants after he reported that he was depressed due to “situational problems,” according to the court records.

Neighbors said his father was a retired school maintenance worker and his mother a former school reading specialist.

Chicago Tribune’s Christy Gutowski contributed.

mwalberg@chicagotribune.com

RELATED

Officials: Deaths of 3 in Winfield family investigated as homicide-suicide; each had ‘multiple sharp-force injuries’ »