How Resorts, Atlantic City's first casino, is still in the game

How Resorts, Atlantic City's first casino, is still in the game May 23

Woman punched by police on Wildwood beach says she didn't spit on cops May 29

Margate police: We kept the lid on Club Wa this year May 30

Amy S. Rosenberg is a staff writer. Most recent preoccupations: the epic drama of Atlantic City, the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, local beach culture, shoobies, the fragile psyche of the Philadelphia sports fan, and Miss America. She lives at the Jersey Shore but also writes about Philly.

MARGATE, N.J. — Police in this busy Shore town say that as usual, more than a thousand visiting teenagers crowded onto the beach near Lucy the Elephant over Memorial Day weekend, but, unlike last year, when fights and loitering outside the nearby Wawa store spiraled out of control, no serious incidents were reported.

“No fighting,” said Police Capt. Ken Bergeron. “It was packed. The beach was taken up. They were just standing around. It is the holiday weekend.”

Bergeron said Margate deployed eight police officers to the beach to keep a lid on the teens.

He said there were 13 overall arrests over the weekend, including one for possession of cocaine in a park near the beach and another for driving while intoxicated. There were four arrests for underage drinking, in addition to about 30 summonses for violations of ordinances, including open containers, drinking in public, and urinating in public.

Bergeron said teens were kept moving outside the Margate Wawa, dubbed Club Wa for its status as a magnet for teens from Philadelphia and its suburbs during peak weekends. (Last year, teens who loitered outside the Wawa and were shown fighting in a viral video were subsequently dubbed “Shoobie Juvies.”)

Social media posts showed the Margate police using flashlights and, later, a loudspeaker — “Move out of the parking lot” — from a police vehicle to repeatedly disperse the crowds outside the Wawa. (The line inside the Wawa was estimated by one Twitter user as upward of 45 minutes — “longer than lines in Disney.”)

The teens are once again being asked to leave the Wawa parking lot now that police have returned. #ClubWa #Margate pic.twitter.com/hLglQre6ob — Ricky ''Reports'' Sayer (@RickyReports) May 27, 2018

Police are using an SUV and its loudspeaker to get the current crowd of teens, which now skews older, out of the Margate Wawa parking lot. pic.twitter.com/sdHO2MsPhT — Ricky ''Reports'' Sayer (@RickyReports) May 27, 2018

Bergeron noted that the beach is “much bigger” than last year, due to sand replenishment, which let the crowds spread out more. He said the teens, many of whom were carrying backpacks but no beach chairs, were mainly from Philadelphia and its suburbs.

“Most locals don’t go to that beach,” he said. Although he said police assume most of the teens are carrying alcohol in their backpacks, they cannot be searched without cause, he noted.

The presence of the crowds of teens on the beach have struck some as negative — “What a mess Margate has become,” one person commented on Facebook — and others as nostalgic. “

Last year, a video of teens fighting on the beach went viral, but the viral video distinction of Memorial Day weekend at the Jersey Shore this year belonged to Wildwood, where a 20-year-old Philadelphia woman was punched twice by police during an altercation. The Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office has said it will release police body camera footage from the incident later this week.

In Margate, Bergeron said that Wawa hired its own security force to patrol outside its store on Washington Avenue and that Margate bicycle and other police made regular rounds.

Line in the Margate Wawa longer than lines in Disney. Was just told it’s a 45 minutes wait from my spot in line. Should have gotten a FastPass. — kyle (@kgeich) May 26, 2018

“Security kept them moving,” he said. “It was a good weekend. The town was crowded, but we had no major incidents.”