Marines tap Heckler and Koch for M27s, spare parts



by James Laporta



Washington (UPI) Apr 30, 2018



Heckler and Koch Defense has been awarded a contract by the U.S. Marine Corps for M27 Infantry Automatic Rifles.

The deal, announced by the Department of Defense, is valued at more than $29.4 million under the terms of a five-year, firm-fixed-price, indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract.

The contract from Marine Corps Systems Command enables Heckler and Koch Defense to produce and deliver up to 15,000 M27 Infantry Automatic Rifle systems, as well as spare parts, according to the Defense Department.

The M27 Infantry Automatic Rifle is a lightweight, magazine-fed select-fire weapon that originally was billed to replace the aging M249 Squad Automatic Weapon. The Marine Corps is considering replacing the service's M4 and M16 service rifles with the M27 IAR.

Work will occur in the United States and Germany and is expected to be complete in April 2023.

More than $7.4 million will be obligated to Heckler and Koch Defense at time of award from multiple fiscal accounts for the first delivery order, immediately after the new contract is awarded. More than $37,536 from fiscal 2016 funds will expire at the end of the current fiscal year, according to the Pentagon.



Related Links

The latest in Military Technology for the 21st century at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Adelphi MD (SPX) Apr 30, 2018

