Stockholm (AFP) May 17, 2018 - NATO-member Denmark said Thursday its special forces taking part in the US-led coalition against the Islamic State group in Iraq would be withdrawn following the IS defeat.

"We have now reached a point where we can begin withdrawing our special forces because (IS) no longer has control over large areas in Iraq," Danish foreign minister Anders Samuelsen said in a statement.

Up to 60 special forces were sent to Iraq in 2016 to train and advise Iraqi soldiers after a vote by the Danish parliament.

The forces also took part in operations on the Iraqi-Syrian border, providing intelligence and ad hoc air support.

"Their Iraqi partners are now ready to stand on their own two feet," Danish defence minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen said in the statement.

"(IS) have been forced away from virtually all the areas which the terrorist organisation occupied in Iraq," he added.

The Scandinavian nation currently has around 180 troops stationed at the Al-Asad air base near Baghdad, where they have been training Iraqi soldiers and Kurdish security forces.

Iraq sentences Russian IS member to death: judicial source

Baghdad (AFP) May 17, 2018 - A court in Iraq on Thursday sentenced to death a Russian jihadist for being a member of the Islamic State group, a judicial source said.

The person who received the sentence in Baghdad's central criminal court was only identified by the name Hassanov, said the same source.

More than 300 people, including around 100 foreigners, have been sentenced to death in Iraq in the past few months, while many others have received life sentences, according to the source.

Most of the convicted foreigners are Turkish or come from former Soviet states.

A German woman and a French woman were recently sentenced to life imprisonment.

Hundreds of Iraqis appear in court near-daily, accused of being jihadists.

On Wednesday, two Iraqi defendants were released, a judicial source told AFP.

IS took over nearly one third of Iraq in a blistering 2014 offensive, seizing control of the country's second largest city, Mosul, among others.

Baghdad declared military victory over the jihadists in December, after expelling them from all urban centres.

During its three-year long self-proclaimed caliphate, IS perpetrated "crimes against humanity," according to a UN commission of inquiry that has called for the group's leaders to be prosecuted by the International Criminal Court.

The president of the court of appeals in eastern Baghdad met David Marshall, an official at the UN's Human Rights Office, on Thursday.

Marshall said a UN delegation would visit Iraq soon, according to a statement by Iraq's judiciary.