masearti

Lyft's new Detroit hub to sit closer to auto investors May 29 Lyft plans to consolidate its Detroit operations and open a new permanent location in the city -- a project expected to benefit its drivers and likely interest its local automaker partners.



Lyft's new Detroit hub to sit closer to auto investors May 29 Author: Alexa St. John Lyft plans to consolidate its Detroit operations and open a new permanent location in the city -- a project expected to benefit its drivers and likely interest its local automaker partners.



Daimler CEO Zetsche questioned over emissions fixes May 29 Germany's Transport Ministry questioned Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche over how many Mercedes vans and cars need to be fixed to meet emissions rules after the automaker was ordered to recall Vito vans because they breached emissions regulations.



Tesla hits parked Calif. police vehicle; driver blames Autopilot May 29 The driver of a Tesla Model S crashed into an unoccupied, parked police vehicle in Southern California and the driver told investigators the Tesla was in "Autopilot" mode at the time.



First Shift: Nissan slashing N.A. assembly up to 20%, report says May 29 Nissan slashing N.A. assembly up to 20%, report says; Toyota named most valuable auto brand -- again; JLR beats the odds; U.S., Canada to talk NAFTA; NIO IPO?



AutoNews Now: Kia Motors America taps Michael Cole as COO May 29 Kia Motors America taps European auto vet Michael Cole as COO; VW's bullish EV prediction; Smart CEO to depart; Abe to lobby Trump; EPA board: Investigate emission rollback science.



Nissan to cut N.A. output up to 20% to shore up U.S. profitability, report says May 29 Nissan is slashing vehicle production by as much as 20 percent in North America to cope with falling profitability in the United States, Japan's Nikkei business daily reported on Monday.



Fiat Chrysler investors want electric road map in Marchionne's swan song May 29 FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne is expected to outline plans for electric and hybrid cars in a strategy presentation Friday, aiming to ensure the carmaker remains in the race in the absence of a merger.



Canada's Freeland to visit Washington this week for NAFTA talks May 29 Canada's Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland will go to Washington on Tuesday to meet with the United States' trade chief as officials press for a deal on reworking NAFTA.



U.S. sets public hearings on auto import tariff probe May 29 The federal government said it would hold public hearings on whether the import of vehicles and auto parts represents national security risks.



Kia Motors America names Michael Cole as COO May 29 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Kia Motors America has handed the COO reins to Michael Cole, who manned the same position for its European operation since November 2012.

