maserati

Kuniskis' job: Fan excitement for Alfa, Maserati Feb. 11 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Tim Kuniskis, the car-crazy U.S. sales guy handed control of FCA's celebrated Alfa Romeo and Maserati brands, knows something about creating excitement.



AutoNews Now: Leadership shakeup at Maserati, Alfa Feb. 5 Leadership shakeup at Maserati, Alfa; Nissan, Porsche EV moves; Conti, Nvidia partner on AV tech; Geely seeks Daimler shares; Bowl ads amuse, befuddle; Railing against wrong Ram.



FCA shifts Kuniskis to Alfa, Maserati; Bigland role reduced Feb. 5 Author: Larry P. Vellequette Fiat Chrysler Automobiles named Tim Kuniskis to be the new global head for Maserati and Alfa Romeo while trimming some responsibilities from the brands' multitasking former boss, U.S. sales chief Reid Bigland.



Maserati to fix some 2018 sedans due to risk of fire Jan. 1 Maserati North America is recalling more than 1,000 of its newest luxury cars to fix leaky fuel pipes that increase the potential for an engine fire.



Judge says a Maserati EV is still a Maserati Dec. 4, 2017 Maserati North America tried to say that electric or hybrid vehicles would not be Maseratis. A judge disagreed.



Maserati's program changes 'unfair,' NY judge rules Nov. 22, 2017 Author: Jackie Charniga A New York administrative judge ruled that proposed changes to Maserati's incentive program and franchise agreement were "unfair," confirming a previous decision.



Maserati's 2nd SUV would challenge Macan and F-Pace Nov. 6, 2017 Fiat Chrysler Automobiles CEO Sergio Marchionne has another SUV up his sleeve for Maserati.



Maserati's second SUV due by 2020, Marchionne says Oct. 25, 2017 Maserati plans to launch a second SUV based on Alfa Romeo underpinnings by 2020, Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne said.



FCA cuts Alfa Romeo, Maserati output after China sales blow Oct. 18, 2017 FCA has cut production at Italian factories building the Alfa Romeo Stelvio SUV and Giulia sedan and the Maserati Levante SUV after new Chinese import rules hit sales, according to union sources.



FCA will press on with Magneti Marelli spinoff next year, Marchionne says Oct. 2, 2017 Fiat Chrysler will push ahead with a plan to separate auto parts unit Magneti Marelli next year, CEO Sergio Marchionne said.



Exotics grow greener and taller Sept. 25, 2017 Author: David Undercoffler Once confined to the mundane world of Priuses and Volts, electrification is bringing sexy back, seeping into the highest echelons of the automotive stratosphere.

