France –-(Ammoland.com)- The Second Master International Shooting Safety Instructors Association (MISSIA) Training Seminar took place in Châteauroux, France on Friday, May 25. The one-day session was led by Vitaly Kryuchin, the IPSC President.

The Seminar, developed under the auspices of the International Practical Shooting Confederation (IPSC), was aimed at teaching and implementing international standards for safe gun handling and IPSC coaching skills to the Regional Instructors. At the end of the event, the certification of Instructors took place.

The MISSIA structure, sequence of training topics, safe groups teaching methods, removal of the main mistakes made by shooters and the testing system for competitors and Instructors were the main topics of the theoretical and practical parts of the Seminar.

“We discussed the sequence of educational topics in the training of a beginner shooter with some special tips, the main drills that instil safety skill, methods of getting rid of jerking/flinch, some special training methods for high-level competitors, the future of MISSIA and IPSC” said the IPSC President, Vitaly Kryuchin.

There were 9 participants from Austria, Belgium, Estonia, Indonesia and Spain. All participants except one successfully passed the handgun shooting tests. Four people successfully passed the shotgun tests. Everybody get the MISSIA Certificates.

Participants, who successfully passed the Shooting Tests will get the MISSIA Instructors ID card. All who did not pass the Shooting Test have the chance to pass it one more time at any official MISSIA event during the 2018 year.

The Seminar’s participants noted the importance of MISSIA creation and its further development, liked the learning process and some secrets that were given during the training session, and that the shooting tests did show their level of skills as shooters. Some of the participants noted that one-day session was not enough and asked to expand the classes to two days.

The next MISSIA Seminar is going to take place on June 20, 2018 in Hodonice, Czech Republic.

About MISSIA

The Master International Shooting Safety Instructors Association (MISSIA) was created within the IPSC structure for the accreditation, recognition and maintenance of International Shooting Safety Instructors and to establish international standards for safe gun handling classes and IPSC coaching skills. One International Instructor, called a Master International Instructor, will be appointed in every IPSC Region. The Master Instructor will then pass on to the other Instructors and Coaches in his Region the minimum IPSC international training standards.

About IPSC

The International Practical Shooting Confederation (IPSC) was founded in 1976 as a shooting sport and today recognizes all the main shooting disciplines – Handgun, Rifle, Shotgun, and Action Air. The Latin words Diligentia, Vis, Celeritas (DVC) meaning accuracy, power, and speed are IPSC’s motto and form the foundation for competition.

IPSC also emphasizes procedures for safe gun handling and strict adherence to the rules governing the sport. In IPSC courses of fire the results are calculated by dividing the competitor’s target score by the time taken to complete the course of fire. The shooter must be the most accurate and fastest to win.

Courses of fire utilize many aspects not found in the more traditional shooting disciplines such as movement by the shooter, moving targets, multiple targets, and the freedom for the shooter to solve the shooting challenges presented in the courses of fire. Therefore, competitions are very exciting for competitors and interesting for spectators.

105 countries (IPSC Regions) are members of the Confederation and actively organize IPSC Matches. The number of active IPSC competitors worldwide exceeded 200,000 in 2017 with 351 IPSC national and international sanctioned matches held.