mazda

First Shift: Ford plans to make up lost F-series output May 17 Ford plans to make up lost F-series output; Mazda's focus on elegance; BMW teases iNext electric AV; NHTSA nominee grilled on Takata recalls; Tesla crash probe; Toyoda's royal wit.



Mazda picks up a slight German accent May 14 Author: Vince Bond Jr. While Mazda can't pass itself off as a luxury brand, the mix of quality, handling and design have proved potent enough to draw upscale consumers who drive German cruisers.



Mazda's new CEO: 'U.S. is the highest priority' May 14 Author: Hans Greimel Mazda's incoming CEO will focus on strengthening Mazda's dealership network in the United States and making the most of an expanded partnership with Toyota.



First Shift: Mazda taps Americas chief as new CEO May 11 Mazda taps Americas chief as CEO; Audi skipping Detroit; Trump, auto execs to meet; Profits drop at Subaru; Trimming up inexpensive cars; Nissan, Toyota aid nursing moms, premature babies.



Mazda names Americas head Marumoto next CEO May 10 Author: Hans Greimel Mazda has named Americas chief Akira Marumoto its new CEO as the second-tier Japanese carmaker confronts big challenges in the new era of electrification, autonomous driving and connected cars.



NHTSA raises alarm over open Takata recalls on Ford Ranger, Mazda B-series trucks May 7 Author: Eric Kulisch NHTSA, worried that too many model year 2006 Ford Rangers and Mazda B-Series pickups with defective Takata airbags remain on the road, pleaded with owners to schedule a free repair.



Honda, Mazda issue profit warnings as yen rise clouds outlook April 27 Honda and Mazda issued profit warnings for the current financial year on worries a stronger yen would erode their operating earnings, wiping out the impact of record high global vehicle sales.



AutoNews Now: Trouble for Chinese-made cars in U.S.? April 5 China-made cars from Volvo, Buick, Cadillac, Ford at risk?; A chance to learn from Uber crash; Reboot at PSA; UAW scandal update; Readers weigh in on GM, Ford cars; Mazda's new ad.



Mazda puts consumers first in 'Feel Alive' campaign April 3 Author: Anisa Jibrell Consumers are the centerpiece of Mazda's new "Feel Alive" advertising campaign as the company tries to reposition itself as a fan-first brand.



Mazda dealers get help with factory ad push April 2 Author: Laurence Iliff Mazda will roll out a major advertising campaign to reposition the brand, having heard from dealers who think its marketing has been lackluster in recent months and that the marque is losing its connection with consumers.



Mazda dealers promised ad blitz in April March 24 Author: Laurence Iliff Mazda will roll out a major advertising campaign to reposition the brand after talking with dealers who feel its marketing has been lackluster in recent months.

