CLEVELAND, Ohio -- A Mentor man is charged after police say he ran across Progressive Field during an Indians game.

Callen Tommasone, 20, is charged with criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, obstructing official business and resisting arrest, all misdemeanors. He pleaded not guilty to the charges on Saturday and was released on a personal bond.

Tommasone, donning a Francisco Lindor jersey, jumped onto the field from the right field stands, police reports say. He ran across the outfield and jumped into the stands along the third base side near the left field corner, according to police reports.

The incident happened late in the game during a stoppage in play during the Indians' 8-2 loss to the Houston Astros. No one chased him on the field.

Tommasone climbed up the stands and left the ballpark through the gate in left field, police reports say.

Security officers notified off-duty Cleveland police officers working outside the stadium. The officers spotted Tommasone on Eagle Avenue, just outside the park.

Tommasone spotted the officers and ran west toward Ontario Street, police said. Indians security guards ran up Ontario Street and were closing in on him. Tommasone turned around and ran back the toward the officers, police reports say.

Tommasone shrugged off one officer's attempt to grab him and kept running in the Gateway Plaza. An officer had her stun gun out and ordered him to stop.

An officer grabbed him by the back of his shirt, but Tommasone lurched forward in a another attempt to get away, police said. The officers grabbed him by each arm and Tommasone struggled, according to police reports.

The officers swept his legs and dragged him to the ground, police reports say. They handcuffed Tommasone and led him back into the ballpark's security office.

The officers asked for his name, but Tommasone refused. They searched for his identification but he had no wallet. The officers asked why and Tommasone replied "I gave it to a friend because I was going to run on the field," police reports say.

To comment on this story, please visit our crime and courts comments page.