CLOSE Tarana Burke, founder of the #MeToo movement, talks about MSU's handling of the Nassar case before her event at the Wharton Center on April 19, 2018.

When the Facing Race National Conference comes to Detroit's Cobo Center in November, #MeToo founder Tarana Burke will be one of two keynote speakers

Buy Photo Tarana Burke, founder of the #MeToo movement, answers a question during press conference before her speech at Wharton Center on the campus of Michigan State University in East Lansing, Thursday, April 19, 2018. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

When the Center for Racial Justice Innovation brings its conference to Detroit in November, #MeToo founder Tarana Burke will be its keynote speaker, the organization announced Monday.

The Facing Race National Conference is set for Nov. 8-10 at Cobo Center, and is expected to draw organizers and activists from around the country to strategize about how to address threats to communities of color and work together to advocate, affect research and policy, and the arts and media.

Burke was named one of the “100 Most Influential People of 2018" by Time magazine, which also named her among The Silence Breakers who spoke out against sexual assault and harassment as 2017 Person of the Year.

“Tarana Burke has dedicated more than 25 years of her life to the intersection of social justice issues, and has laid the groundwork for an international movement that inspires solidarity,” said Race Forward President Glenn Harris in a news release. “We’re elated and honored that she will be sharing her words of wisdom, inspiration, and power building with the thousands of Facing Race attendees.”

Read more:

#MeToo's Tarana Burke speaks at MSU for survivors, not for spin

Burke, who serves as senior director at the Brooklyn-based Girls for Gender Equity, is the first of two keynote speakers to be announced for the Detroit conference.



“So often today, conversations about race, class, and gender exist in silos, and the truth is that the potential for change lives at the intersection of all,” Burke said in a news release. “I’m thrilled to be part of a space that is intentionally multiracial and multi-gender as we envision a meaningfully inclusive society."

Buy Photo Tarana Burke speaks during The Women's Convention at Cobo Center in downtown Detroit, Friday, October 27, 2017. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)

In addition to keynote speakers, film screenings, and networking opportunities, Facing Race is to present at least 80 panels and breakout sessions.

For more details about the event, go to https://facingrace.raceforward.org/ or search Facebook and Twitter for #FacingRace.

Contact Kristen Jordan Shamus: 313-222-5997 or kshamus@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @kristenshamus.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2vGw3OE