CLOSE A look at the Wolverines' 2018 regular-season schedule, which opens at Notre Dame on Sept. 1, and finishes at Ohio State on Nov. 24. Video by Ryan Ford, Detroit Free Press Wochit

Michigan quarterbacks Brandon Peters (far right) and Shea Patterson (far left) play catch April 28, 2018 in Paris. (Photo: Nick Baumgardner, Detroit Free Press)

NOTE: This is the third installment in a series examining Michigan's position groups this offseason.

Part 1: Offensive line

Part 2: Wide receivers

Jim Harbaugh has been Michigan's head coach for 39 games.

He came to Ann Arbor with more hype than any Michigan coach in recent memory, and his reputation as a quarterback guru was No. 1 on that list. After an expected slow start in 2015, Harbaugh's quarterbacks hit their stride for a 14-game stretch from the close of that first season through the beginning of the 2016 campaign.

For 14 games, it all worked really well.

More: Michigan's offensive line has potential, but how much?

Stuff changed. And now, with a tweaked coaching staff and a new face in his quarterback room, Harbaugh has to find a way to get back toward something resembling that 14-game run like his coaching reputation depended on it.

Because it kind of does.

Through the final five games of 2015 and the first nine of 2016, Jake Rudock and Wilton Speight sparkled: 3,627 yards, 29 touchdowns, five interceptions and a 65.5 completion rate. Those are elite numbers by any measurement and they prove this system can work when a passer understands the offense and has the type of polished weapons around him to succeed.

More: Tarik Black's return, better fundamentals could boost Michigan WRs

Neither Speight nor Rudock were flashy during that run. But they were efficient. They found open receivers, they delivered the ball on time and — more important than anything — they kept Michigan on schedule. They avoided disasters. In that 14-game stretch, Michigan allowed just 17 sacks. Speight and Rudock had a big hand in that, as they both showed an ability to move away from pressure in the pocket and escape.

Going thru some old stuff:



If Michigan can get, at minimum, this level of pocket presence/mobility from its QB in 2018, its life will be much improved. pic.twitter.com/vn5MzHkVqA — Nick Baumgardner (@nickbaumgardner) May 22, 2018

The narrative that Harbaugh's quarterback tutelage has been a mess for three years at Michigan is flawed, because things were headed toward a good place before Speight turned in a goose egg and wrecked a shoulder in game 10 of 2016. He was never the same after that and the 2017 season showed every wart imaginable.

Same time, the narrative that the new face du jour (Shea Patterson) can fix everything with his mere presence is also flawed.

More: Shea Patterson is one guy; Michigan football needs more than that

It's kind of a big year for the quarterback position in Ann Arbor.

Shea Patterson passes against Alabama in 2017. (Photo: John David Mercer, USA TODAY Sports)

Offseason reset

Patterson has to be considered the front-runner for the Michigan job in 2018 because, if for no other reason, he's got more than twice as many starts as every other quarterback on this roster combined.

That says a lot on both sides — Patterson has only started 10 games, the rest of the quarterback room has combined to start four.

Brandon Peters has four career starts. His last start against South Carolina in the Outback Bowl wasn't great (20 of 44, 182 yards, two interceptions) wasn't great, but it's not fair to judge and project Peters' entire career based on four games for the same reason why it's not fair to put Heisman Trophy expectations on Patterson before he's ever taken a snap in a Michigan uniform.

Dylan McCaffrey and Joe Milton? We have no idea what to expect from either player in an actual game because we've never seen it. No amount of anonymous spring practice chatter from friends of the program will change that.

While he's yet to play in Michigan's system, Patterson does have a 10-game stretch of measurements that are notable. In seven games last year, Patterson had a touchdown (TDs per pass attempt) rate of 6.5 and an interception rate of 3.5. The first number is really good, the second isn't. He also fumbled five times in seven games and was sacked 19 times during that span. His offensive line wasn't great, but Patterson's strength of improvisation can also be an issue.

Jim Harbaugh talks with Brandon Peters in the fourth quarter of Michigan's 35-14 win over Rutgers, Saturday, Oct. 28, 2017 at Michigan Stadium. (Photo: Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press)

The guy with the best pocket awareness is the best option for Michigan. Period. Patterson, if he's playing under control, has plenty of this. He can feel the rush and he has the ability to avoid it. If avoiding the rush means he's moving forward and keeping Michigan out of third and long, everything will be fine. If avoiding the rush means he starts pivoting backward and scrambling all over the place, then high-risk enters the equation.

Peters had his moments both good and bad. But overall, his ability to improvise and make something happen when all else fails is nowhere near what Patterson has shown through two years in college.

When Harbaugh's pass offense works, a few priorities are happening in order. Here's former quarterbacks coach Jedd Fisch from 2016: "They have to complete passes (consistently), they have to not turn the ball over, they have to not take sacks, they have to create explosive plays, they have to avoid negative plays." He never said "in that order," but he may as well have.

Patterson has what he needs to succeed at Michigan. There's proof. Peters, McCaffrey and Milton might, too. But there's not much proof right now. Patterson seems like the best bet here and if he's not, then it means someone else exploded or everything's a mess.

Michigan quarterback Dylan McCaffrey (10) during practice before the Minnesota game at the Michigan Stadium in Ann Arbor, Saturday, November 4, 2017. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)

And Harbaugh quarterbacks, believe it or not, have provided a blueprint for what success looks like. It's Rudock at the end of 2015 and Speight at the beginning of 2016. Play under control, complete passes, avoid danger. That type of quarterback helps a pro style offensive line, it helps the run game, it helps the defense.

And it creates wins.

Number

7.3

Michigan faced an average third down distance of 7.3 yards last season. That qualifies as third and long and that's bad. As a result, the Wolverines ranked No. 116 nationally in third down conversion offense.

In 2015, when Rudock found efficiency and kept Michigan out of trouble with pocket presence and decision making, Michigan's number was 6.2. For point of reference, Wisconsin, the Big Ten's best third down offense, averaged 6.5 last season.

The offensive line plays a large role here, but so does the quarterback. The key ingredient to Harbaugh's offense is not explosiveness. It's efficiency.

And the quarterback holds it all in his hands.

Contact Nick Baumgardner: nbaumgardn@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @NickBaumgardner.

Download our Wolverines Xtra app for free on Apple and Android devices!