Buy Photo The Michigan Legislature is considering bills that would create an rules oversight committee for the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. The bills would also establish a board to advise the government on issues of science and the environment and an appeals committee that would hear appeals to permitting decisions made by the MDEQ. (Photo: Ellen Creager/Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Recently comments have been made that Senate Bills 652-654 dealing with adding transparency and oversight for environmental regulations are a “solution in search of a problem.” That could not be further from the truth.

And it’s not just me simply saying so.

It’s according to many citizens and businesses across this state who are directly impacted by regulatory decisions imposed by un-elected bureaucrats at the Department of Environmental Quality — decisions that often are overly burdensome and overreach the intent of laws. They came to the Legislature and asked for help and reforms, not to pollute the environment but to reasonably be able to use their property or operate their businesses.

If you drill down past the rhetoric, you will see that the bills, as passed the House, represent a thoughtful compromise to ensure all voices are heard. No one interest can dominate the discussion.

Now I want to clarify what is contained in these bills versus what certain groups have claimed.

Kaffer: Michigan Legislature declares open season on environmental regulation

More: House passes bills creating 'polluter panels' that could override DEQ

Senate Bill 652 creates the Environmental Rules Review Committee, made up of a diverse group of 12 stakeholders. This body creates a balance with no single interest having a majority of members. The committee’s role is simple: review all environmental rules and make a recommendation to the governor or allow them to move through the existing process. The governor has final say on all rules.

State Sen. Tom Casperson, R-Escanaba (Photo: Sen. Tom Casperson)

Senate Bill 653 creates a DEQ permit review panel appointed by the governor to hear concerns from an applicant about permitting conditions or permit denial. The process will allow citizens to appeal to a panel of experts to hear their concerns. In many cases, the current process for permit appeals is costly and time-consuming, discouraging individuals from justifying their arguments because they can’t afford a drawn out contested case or court proceeding.

Senate Bill 654 creates the Environmental Science Advisory Board appointed by the governor to provide scientific recommendations on emerging environmental and public health issues. A similar body existed under the Governor Engler and Granholm administrations but was abolished in 2007. This body will provide non-political, scientific advice on environmental subjects.

At its core, this package of bills is about better government.

It is about increasing transparency of DEQ actions, supporting well-founded decisions that reflect the laws of our state, and holding accountable those who go beyond that scope. Protecting our environment and supporting private property rights and business development are not mutually exclusive goals; this bill package reflects that sentiment.

Tom Casperson, a Republican from Escanaba, represents Michigan's 38th District in the Michigan Senate.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xryTYM