Detroit's 242-page bid book for the Amazon headquarters is marked "confidential." (Photo: JC Reindl)

Michigan offered Amazon $4 billion in incentives in the failed bid to lure Amazon's second headquarters to Detroit, the Michigan Economic Development Corp. disclosed Friday.

State officials said they believed the offer was the largest incentive package ever offered by the state to a private enterprise. Even at that, though, the offer failed to sway Amazon, which left Detroit off the list of 20 finalist cities and regions. No final winner has been chosen yet.

State officials previously resisted calls to release the amount of incentives offered to Amazon, but said it reached agreement this week to do so.

The Free Press was among the news organizations that had filed Freedom of Information requests for the Amazon figure.

The MEDC last month, in denying a Free Press appeal of its earlier denial, said it was required to withhold the amount of public subsidies offered Amazon in the Detroit bid because of a nondisclosure agreement the state signed with businessman Dan Gilbert's Bedrock real estate arm in September 2016, which put together the Detroit bid.

But Greg Tedder, the MEDC's executive vice president, said Friday that the state and Gilbert's Bedrock had reached a "mutual decision" this week to release the number.

Tedder and other state officials have emphasized that the package offered Amazon was performance-based, meaning Amazon would reap the tax benefits only if and when it created the new jobs and tax base. And Tedder said that no money currently going to schools or other services would be redirected to Amazon.

Even though the Amazon bid failed, the release of the previously withheld amount offered seems likely to fuel the ongoing debate over tax breaks offered to giant corporations.

Timothy Bartik, an economist with the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research in Kalamazoo, reported recently that nationally incentives have tripled in the past quarter century. In 2017, Wisconsin lured Foxconn, an electronics manufacturer, with incentives of up to $4.5 billion.

Economists who study the issue generally downplay the effectiveness of tax incentives in business decisions, saying most relocation moves would have happened anyway. But city and state development officials as well as private developers vigorously disagree, saying that tax incentives remain an indispensable part of any attempt to make hard-hit cities like Detroit competitive.

Of the $4-billion package, by far the biggest piece was valued at about $3.3 billion from the creation of a Michigan Renaissance Zone and associated local tax abatement. This piece would have essentially excused Amazon from paying corporate income taxes and local property and utility taxes for up to 30 years.

Other parts of the incentive package consisted of about $365 million under the state's new Transformational Brownfield legislation and $200 million under the state's Good Jobs for Michigan program. Other programs included about $140 million in other tax incentives.

At $4 billion, the offer to bring Amazon's so-called HQ2 to Detroit was in line with what other cities nationally were offering. Other cities around the nation offered public subsidies generally from $2 billion to $7 billion. Dallas topped the list by offering to build a new rail line for Amazon for a total package totaling $15 billion.

Related:

Contact John Gallagher: 313-222-5173 or gallagher@freepess.com. Follow him on Twitter @jgallagherfreep.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2sbJqS0