Some believe that a U.S. trade war with China is already underway. (Photo: Getty Images)

WASHINGTON — If a trade war with China erupts, Michigan could be among the hardest hit states in the U.S.

On Tuesday, President Donald Trump gave new life to the prospect of a trade war, saying he is again considering a 25% tariff on $50 billion worth of Chinese imports, even though others in his Cabinet had earlier played down any prospects of such a repeated series of reprisals with the Asian nation.

The potential threat comes even as Trump has told his Commerce Department to look into whether the importation of autos and auto supplies risks national security and warrants tariffs, upsetting free market supporters and international car companies but winning praise from some, including UAW leaders.

The list of products Trump is considering taxing may not be known until June 15 and the Chinese have not yet said what sort of retaliation they may take, if any. But if they renew a threat made in April the last time Trump proposed the same tariff, it could take a bite out of many Michigan-based industries.

Robert Maxim, a senior research analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said this week that there are more than 91,000 Michigan jobs in industries, including auto-making, plastic product manufacturing and pharmaceuticals, that could be socked by Chinese retaliation if the nation keeps to the earlier proposed list.

That list included some vehicles, including sport-utility vehicles, aircraft, plastics and chemicals. It also targeted specific products such as whiskey and orange juice, which would hurt in key states like Kentucky and Florida.

Maxim said the Michigan number includes some 23,000 jobs in Wayne and Macomb counties specifically linked to auto-making and plastics manufacturing. Nationwide, in terms of the number of jobs in potentially affected industries, Michigan would rank fourth, behind Texas, California and Washington state, added Jacob Whiton, a research assistant at Brookings.

That's not to say all or even most of those jobs would be at risk: Brookings' research was intended to show where the jobs in potentially affected industries are.

Back in April, Brookings looked both at some 128 retaliatory tariff actions taken by China to Trump's proposed new taxes on imported steel and aluminum, which have already gone into effect, as well as 106 new tariffs proposed by China — but never enforced — when the Trump administration first suggested the president might take actions against $50 billion in Chinese imports.

Taken together and covering a huge list of products from SUVs and aircraft to pork products, fruits and nuts, that Brookings report found Michigan the fourth most-impacted state in terms of jobs in potentially affected industries, with 100,929. Wayne County was also seventh among all the counties across the nation in terms of jobs in potentially affected industries.

If China changes its list, however, or if the second round of tariffs never goes into effect, then the impact could be far different.

"(Tuesday's) announcement from the Trump administration was basically that this second round is back on, and they are going to look at the list that they published in April, potentially revise it, and republish it by June 15th," Maxim said. "What we don’t know right now is how the Chinese will react — in particular, whether they will keep their current retaliation list as-is or make any revisions.

"In either case, given that China will be fashioning its actions as retaliation, it’s unlikely that the Chinese tariffs would come into effect unless the U.S. actually begins enforcing this revised list of tariffs that will be announced by June 15th."

Contact Todd Spangler at 703-854-8947 or at tspangler@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter at @tsspangler.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xsVcgJ