CLOSE As Michigan begins licensing medical marijuana businesses, there will be a need for hundreds, even thousands of workers in dispensaries. Wochit

Cannabis leaves of a plant (Photo: Yarygin, Getty Images/iStockphoto)

The 215 medical marijuana businesses that were operating under state-approved emergency rules, but which faced a June 15 deadline to get a license or be shut down, got some breathing room Wednesday when the state extended that deadline to Sept. 15.

“It was obvious that the process was moving a little slower than anticipated, so we needed to make sure that the patients had continued access to their medicine,” said David Harns, spokesman for the state Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, which governs the regulations surrounding medical marijuana.

The state has been reviewing applications for medical marijuana licenses since it began accepting the applications on Dec. 15. But the state has given only preliminary approval so far to a handful of businesses, but no licenses. The Michigan Medical Marijuana Licensing Board is expected to consider pre-qualification approvals for more than a dozen applicants on Thursday. But, again, no licenses are expected to be issued until the board’s June 11 meeting.

Read more:

That meant that the 215 businesses, most of which are medical marijuana dispensaries, faced closure since they have been operating without a license. If they had stayed open past June 15, the owners risked not getting a license at all because they were operating in violation of the emergency rules.

Business owners, patients and entrepreneurs have been encouraging the state to extend the deadline to ensure that the businesses don’t lose their source of revenue while they wait for a license and patients don’t lose access to medical marijuana.

“It was obvious that the state had to do something,” said attorney Barton Morris, who has medical marijuana business clients in Detroit, Ann Arbor and the western part of Michigan. “We have been hoping and communicating with the department to try to figure out where we’re at in line so we could get approval before the 15th. But I’ve advised my clients that we’re prepared to do whatever is necessary because we can’t just hope that the licensing board isn’t going to stop us.

“It’s potentially a lot of money lost for these businesses. We could be talking about $5,000 a day and the lost continuity of their business if they have to shut down.”

Gov. Rick Snyder signed the extension of the deadline on Wednesday and applicants who turned in their applications for a license by Feb. 15 will be able to continue to operate without risking their license until Sept. 15.

“Extending the deadline to September 15th will make sure that this law is implemented correctly and assure that potential licensees are thoroughly reviewed. It is important that we ensure that medical marihuana patients have continued access to their medicine,” said LARA Director Shelly Edgerton.

Contact Kathleen Gray: 313-223-4430, kgray99@freepress.com or on Twitter @michpoligal

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LJ6QqJ