Buy Photo Michigan State University Board of Trustees Chairman announces the selection of Bill Beekman as Michigan State University interim president during a Michigan State University Board of Trustees meeting on Friday January 26, 2018 at the Hannah Administration Building on the MSU campus in East Lansing. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

The Michigan State University board has hired Theresa Sullivan, currently the University of Virginia president, to help it as it searches for the next MSU president.

“Identifying a new president for Michigan State University is an extremely important process and as a respected, accomplished member of the academy and collegiate administrator, Dr. Sullivan is well-positioned to offer insight and advice to the board,” MSU board Chairman Brian Breslin said in a news release. “The appointment of an adviser to assist the board in designing and implementing a presidential search is an important step forward that will ensure the input of all stakeholders is garnered and considered.”

She will not be a candidate for the permanent MSU position.

Sullivan will be paid $1,000 per eight-hour day, MSU board trustee Dianne Byrum, speaking on behalf of the board, told the Free Press. The board is looking at her working one day a week, although that eight-hour time period might be split up among several days. She will be doing video conferences, phone calls and in-person conversations with the board as it works to figure out how it wants to go about finding a new president.

Sullivan will work for free, however, until she retires from University of Virginia at the end of July. The MSU contract, which is not yet signed, does not have an end date.

Sullivan has ties to MSU and the state of Michigan.

Sullivan is the former provost of the University of Michigan, where she worked underformer U-M President Mary Sue Coleman. Sullivan was president at Virginia when Rolling Stone published an infamous article about a gang rape at a fraternity, a story that was discovered to be made up. She has been the president at the University of Virginia since 2010.

Sullivan has an undergraduate degree from MSU. After graduation, then-MSU president Clifton Wharton Jr. asked Sullivan to stay and work in his office. He also encouraged her to go after her PhD to work in higher education.

“I welcome the opportunity to assist my alma mater as it searches for its next president, and I am looking forward to advising the Board of Trustees and university community as the search proceeds,” Sullivan said in a news release. “The process of identifying and selecting a new president is exceptionally important for the future of Michigan State University.”

In April, the Detroit Free Press reported Sullivan was among two finalists being considered for the post. The other was former University of Iowa President Sally Mason.

MSU is searching for a replacement for Lou Anna Simon, who resigned in January. Simon stepped down hours after a judge sentenced MSU doctor Larry Nassar to 40 to 175 years in prison as part of a plea deal on seven counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct. He is accused of molesting more than 200 girls and women over more than two decades. Nassar survivors have repeatedly wondered why Simon didn't act sooner in the case.

MSU named Bill Beekman as the temporary president when Simon stepped down.

Shortly after, MSU named former Michigan Gov. John Engler as interim president. He has drawn heat in recent weeks for a series of moves, including a private meeting with a Nassar survivor in which she claims Engler offered her $250,000 to settle her lawsuit.

The lawsuits were settled earlier this month for $500 million.

Contact David Jesse: 313-222-8851 or djesse@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter: @reporterdavid

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LFwMUb