Fewer people are drinking American light beers than they used to, but there’s some reason for hope at the MillerCoors headquarters on South Wacker Drive in Chicago.

Though the three powerhouse light beers — top-selling Bud Light, Coors Light and Miller Lite — have all experienced declining sales in recent years, Miller Lite has gained market share for 14 straight fiscal quarters in the premium light beer segment. And according to Nielsen data for the four-week period ending May 19, Miller Lite’s sales volume was up 2.4 percent, compared with declines of more than 2 percent for both Bud Light and Coors Light.

Anup Shah, vice president of the Miller family of brands, believes Miller Lite’s recent success is more than just a blip.

“We think it’s a sign of better things to come. … We’re trying to get around flat (this year) and build a path back to growth,” said Shah, who was recently promoted to his position.

The following interview has been edited for length and clarity.

Q: How important is Miller Lite for MillerCoors achieving its goal of getting back to sales growth?

A: Crucial. If you look at the Miller family, we’re about 30 percent of the volume of the company. The math doesn’t work if you can’t get Miller healthy and I think we’re on that path right now.

Q: What are the challenges facing American light beer?

A: Those three brands (Bud Light, Coors Light and Miller Lite) are still 35 percent of total volume. So they’re still the lion’s share. I think it comes down to a couple of factors. First, there’s a perception that all light beers are the same and that they’re all kind of a sea of sameness. And I think light beer has lost occasions. You see wine and spirits infringe upon those occasions that were traditionally for light beer.

Q: Are wine and spirits the bigger threat than the rise of craft and Mexican imports?

A: The need (for lower-alcohol, more accessible beverages) is still there and I think there’s been some trade-up to things that are seen as more premium. That’s definitely driving part of the decline with the American light lager segment.

Q: But Miller Lite isn’t declining as much as Bud Light and Coors Light lately. Why is that?

A: If you look back, at about 2013, (Miller Lite was) declining at about 7 percent year over year. It was a pretty dire situation for the brand. It was in free fall. We made a couple of key decisions. One was to relaunch the iconic Miller Lite packaging. Then we really focused on talking about the beer and what made the beer distinct, which is the duality of lightness and taste. … And last, the competitive work that we’ve done, using Bud Light as a competitive foil, has really worked. We feel encouraged by the momentum and hopefully with some good weather, we’ll start to see better trends throughout the summer.

Q: Would Miller Lite consider targeting up-and-comers like Modelo or Michelob Ultra in competitive advertising?

A: I think strategically right now the source of volume is still Bud Light and that’s where we’re going to focus in the near term. Right now, Bud Light’s about 20 percent of the total market nationally. It’s a little smaller in Chicago. They’re shedding (sales volume) at about 5 or 6 percent year over year, which is about 1.7 million barrels. … That being said, I think you’ll see us look at opening the competitive frame of reference in the future.

Q: To what do you attribute Miller Lite’s recent uptick in sales?

A: The Anup Shah effect is one (laughing). No, you’re starting to see our consistency and the approach we’ve taken in terms of focusing on the product superiority.

Q: And some of the off-premise growth is happening in dollar stores?

A: We’ve had a very good year at dollar stores, in general. It’s definitely having an effect. We see dollar stores becoming a bigger and bigger chain for us.

Q: Who is the core Miller Lite drinker?

A: Our core tends to skew in the Great Lakes central region. We target 25-to-35-year-old males. That’s kind of our sweet spot. In some markets, our core is aging and a little older than that.

Q: With marketing, are you trying to broaden that core base for the brand?

A: We’ve broadened our reach in our media targeting to reach not just males, 21 to 34 years old, but adults, 21 to 34. We’re trying to increase our reach with women, an important demographic that’s been alienated by beer in general. The messaging around low-calorie, great taste resonates well with them.

Q: What kind of change are you bringing to the marketing strategy for Miller Lite?

A: I think what you will see is an evolution approach, rather than a revolution. If you look at a lot of the things we’re doing, I think it’s working hard. I think what you’ll see us do is be a little bolder across a couple dimensions. There’s room to continue to push the competitive messaging. I think we can do a better job of recruitment of Latino drinkers.

Q: Has the growth of craft beers and Mexican imports changed the marketing strategy for Miller Lite?

A: So craft beer is still just 11 percent of the total beer segment. … We know the perceptions of quality have shifted. It hasn’t changed what we do. We think we’re still the best (lower-alcohol) light lager and we’re going to focus on that message.

Q: Would Miller Lite ever branch into flavors like the Bud Light Orange —

A: Never.

Q: Why not?

A: Our principle around this is that line extensions erode the equity in what it’s known for. The approach that Bud Light has taken has questioned whether it’s really a beer anymore.

gtrotter@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @GregTrotterTrib