CLOSE President Donald Trump’s Personal attorney Michael Cohen was paid at least $400,000 by Ukraine to set up talks between Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko and President Donald Trump, the BBC reports. Veuer Sam Berman. Buzz60

Michael Cohen, the longtime lawyer of President Donald Trump, arrives at the U.S. Courthouse in New York to attend a hearing to limit prosecutors' review of documents seized from his home and office. (Photo: Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY NETWORK)

A federal judge set a deadline of June 15 for attorneys representing President Trump and his personal lawyer Michael Cohen to assert claims that materials seized from Cohen's offices and residences should not be turned over to prosecutors.

Of the more than 1 million seized pieces of information reviewed by a court-appointed official, only 252 were classified as privileged communication between attorney and client, meaning they would not be turned over to prosecutors investigating Cohen's business activities.

The federal investigation includes Cohen's payment of $130,000 to adult film star Stormy Daniels to remain silent about her alleged affair with Trump.

The president, who acknowledged reimbursing Cohen for the hush-money settlement struck on the eve of the 2016 presidential election, denied having an affair with Daniels.

In a report to U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood, court-appointed special master Barbara Jones said she was readying the transfer of 1,025,363 pieces of information seized from three Cohen phones to the government.

Wood said at the hearing Wednesday that she had to balance the needs of lawyers for Cohen and Trump with the needs of criminal prosecutors.

Cohen did not speak during the hour-long hearing in Manhattan. His lawyers said they are about a third of the way through materials turned over from the government. Federal agents raided Cohen's home and office April 9 as part of a criminal fraud investigation.

More: Millions flow to fast-growing lobbying firms with ties to the Trump administration

Wednesday's hearing was another chapter in the clash over attorney-client privilege waged by Cohen, Trump and the president's real estate company, the Trump Organization.

Their attorneys, citing privileged communication with their clients, asserted that prosecutors should not be able view materials seized in raids on Cohen's home, hotel room and offices.

Contributing: The Associated Press

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2LLpQ86