Milwaukee Tool just introduced a few big breakthroughs in their venerable M18 lineup of cordless tools. Playing catchup after Dewalt made a splash with their Flexvolt platform two years ago, Milwaukee's added an 8 1/4-inch cordless jobsite table saw and a 16-inch chainsaw.

But it's the battery powering these new tools that might be the real difference maker.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Meet the High-Output HD12.0 Battery

Milwaukee Tool

The Milwaukee HD9.0 battery released two years ago, provided enough power and runtime to handle the demands of the new 10-inch miter saw and outdoor power tools. But with the new HD12.0, Milwaukee says it's legitimately the equivalent of 15-amp corded tool and delivers 50 percent more power, runs 50 percent cooler, and provides 33 percent more runtime than the HD9.0 battery. It's just the battery needed to support their new table saw, chainsaw, and super Sawzall.

Cold weather contractors and DIYers will also be pleased as the battery's new advanced pack design makes it the best cold weather performing pack they've ever made, able to operate in extreme weather conditions (-20°F/-28°C) during heavy applications.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Creating Better Saws

Milwaukee Tool

The new M18 Fuel chainsaw expands on Milwaukee's popular outdoor power equipment line. It has the power to cut hardwoods, cuts faster than a 40cc gas saw, and paired with the HD12.0 battery it delivers up to 150 cuts per charge. It weighs in at 13.9 pounds and will be available in July though we still don't know the price.

Instead of creating a new battery platform to drive these energy hogging tools, Milwaukee Tool invested heavily in their 18V technology, and can now boast the worlds first 18V table saw.

Milwaukee Tool

Powered by the new 18V HD12.0 battery, the saw generates the power of a 15-amp corded saw. It has a rip capacity of up to 24-1/2 inches and can rip up to 600 linear feet per charge. It's built for the jobsite as it's equipped with One-Key, which allows users to track, manage, and secure the table saw through the One-Key app on their phone.

Every new 18V battery update from Milwaukee Tool is compatible with every generation of M18 tools, but the new generation of M18 jobsite tools will only run at peak performance with their 9.0 or 12.0 battery packs.

Not to be overlooked, but these new tools have also been built from the ground up—utilizing a redesigned brushless motor and new electronics. This new tech is designed to maximize the performance gains with the new battery.

These new battery and tools will be available in July 2018.