mini

BMW's Q1 profit falls 3% on foreign exchange headwinds May 4 BMW posted a 3 percent drop in first-quarter profit as unfavorable exchange rate effects weighed on revenues and earnings, even as the automaker posted higher margins and vehicle sales.



Marketing, volume on Mini dealers' minds April 2 Author: Hannah Lutz Mini dealers brought three issues -- limited sales volume, marketing spend and dealership profits -- but many answers were deferred until a BMW meeting this month.



Mini's rising sales may lift dealer profits March 24 Author: Hannah Lutz With a sales volume boost so far this year, Mini dealerships could improve profitability, executives told dealers.



Mini dealers want to know the brand's vision March 22 Author: Amy Wilson With Mini's U.S. sales at less than half the 100,000 that was once the brand's long-term outlook, U.S. dealers are looking for answers on where the brand is going.



For Mini dealers, boosting profitability is top priority March 19 Author: Amy Wilson Mini's dealer council is pushing the brand to spend more on marketing and make other moves to help right flagging dealership profitability.



BMW will seek China production site for Mini EVs Feb. 23 BMW said it plans to choose a production site in China for Mini electric cars after signing a letter of intent on a joint venture with Great Wall Motor Co.



Mini exec: Dealers should see a better 2018 Jan. 29 Author: Amy Wilson With a full year of the redesigned Countryman available, Mini's U.S. chief expects to turn around a sales decline -- and help sluggish dealership profitability



Mini: Small cars in U.S. may get dual-clutch gearbox later Jan. 29 Author: Amy Wilson Homologation issues mean that Mini's trio of small cars won't get the brand's new dual-clutch transmission when they are freshened for the 2019 model year.



Mini has modest hopes for freshened small cars Jan. 15 Author: Amy Wilson Despite a freshening for the 2019 models, Mini expects small-car sales to remain slow this year.



Mini freshens hardtops, convertible for 2019 Jan. 9 Author: Amy Wilson The freshened 2019 Mini hardtops and convertible go on sale this spring. A new 6.5-inch instrument panel display is standard with a new 8.8-inch touchscreen display available.



Freshened Mini convertible to debut in Detroit Jan. 8 Author: Amy Wilson Mini will show freshened versions of its classic three-door Hardtop and convertible next week at the Detroit auto show, Automotive News has learned.

