Missile Defense Agency contracts for Aegis 6.0 modeling support



by James Laporta



Washington DC (UPI) May 16, 2018



Lockheed Martin has been awarded a contract for services in support of the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense system.

The Missile Defense Agency contract was announced on Tuesday by the Defense Department and enables Lockheed Martin to provide "materials necessary to support Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense 6.0 modeling and simulation."

The contract is valued at more than $12.8 million under the terms of a cost-plus-incentive-fee modification to a previous Pentagon award.

The modification increases the overall value of the contract to more than $2.805 billion for research and development of the Aegis system.

Work on the contract will occur in Moorestown, N.J., and is expected to be complete in September 2018.

The total amount of the contract award will be obligated to Lockheed Martin at time of award.

The obligated funds will be allocated from fiscal 2018 research, development, test, and evaluation funds, according to the Pentagon.



Related Links

Learn about missile defense at SpaceWar.com

Learn about nuclear weapons doctrine and defense at SpaceWar.com

All about missiles at SpaceWar.com

Learn about the Superpowers of the 21st Century at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Riyadh (AFP) May 15, 2018

