mitsubishi

Renault-Nissan invests in China, U.S., French startups May 23 The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance's new venture capital fund is backing autonomous driving, artificial intelligence and solid-state battery startups.



EV batteries present new challenges for firefighters May 16 Fires on electric vehicles are rare, but the volatile chemistry of their batteries and the need for special training on how to extinguish them raises new safety questions as automakers are poised to dramatically increase production.



Mitsu gets back to a profit on N.A. boost May 14 Author: Hans Greimel Naoto Okamura Rebounding profits in North America helped troubled Mitsubishi Motors Corp. jump back into the black in the just-finished fiscal year, as the recovering Japanese automaker rode a tail wind of surging sales, big cost cuts and favorable exchange rates.



Mitsubishi rebounds to profit on higher sales, cost cutting May 9 Author: Hans Greimel Rebounding profits in North America helped troubled Mitsubishi jump back into the black in the just-finished fiscal year.



Mitsubishi COO sees big strides as alliance member April 16 Author: Vince Bond Jr. Trevor Mann foresees the automaker flirting with the 300,000 mark as it introduces new products such as the Eclipse Cross and begins to roll out vehicles on platforms shared with Renault-Nissan around 2021.



Mitsubishi Outlander Sport, Ford Escape flounder in passenger-side crash testing April 4 Author: Anisa Jibrell The 2018 Mitsubishi Outlander Sport and 2018 Ford Escape floundered in the latest batch of passenger-side crash testing evaluations carried out by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.



Mitsubishi sees more growth, zeros in on service and parts April 2 Author: Richard Truett In this Q&A, Mitsubishi's vice president of fixed operations discusses the alliance with Nissan and lessons learned from the i-MiEV electric vehicle.



Mitsubishi promises more leasing support April 2 Author: Lindsay Chappell Mitsubishi told its dealers that more support is on the way for financing, leasing and marketing as the brand looks for another growth year in 2018.



Nissan, Renault engaged in merger talks to create new automaker, report says March 29 Renault and Nissan are in talks to merge and create a new automaker that trades as a single stock, Bloomberg reported, citing sources with knowledge of the matter.



Mitsubishi North America COO Don Swearingen to retire in June March 26 Author: Anisa Jibrell Don Swearingen, Mitsubishi Motors North America's COO who helped drive the niche Japanese brand back to profitability, is retiring effective June 1.



Mitsubishi: Outlander PHEV leads sales charge March 22 Author: Jack Walsworth Mitsubishi Motors North America is coming off its best sales year in the U.S. since 2007. With an injection of new product arriving this year, the automaker figures to keep sales increasing.

