Three title games. Six points separation. Raucous crowds. Amazing finishes. Big shots. Big finishes.

It was simply a fantastic, frenetic Friday night around the Bay Area in boys basketball. Hard to do it justice in a small space – see published version here in The Chronicle – so here it is flushed out a tad.

North Coast Section



Emeka Udenyi knew if he missed, Justin Pratt would have his back.

The 6-foot-3 junior forward had more than that, following home a Udenyi floater in the lane with 1.6 seconds left, lifting third-seed De La Salle-Concord to a thrilling 53-51 North Coast Section Division I championship win over top seed Dublin Friday night at a packed a loud McKeon Pavilion on the campus of St. Mary’s College.

After two free throws by Dublin’s Steven Houston (12 points) tied the game at 51 with 14.3 seconds left, De La Salle called timeout with 6.7 ticks left.

Pratt inbounded to Udenyi (14 points, 12 rebounds) and the 6-6, 230-pounder spun in the lane sending a shot off the front iron. Pratt (13 points) followed on the right side and banked the ball with his left hand home, setting off an eruption on the De La Salle side.

The Spartans (26-5), who lost an overtime game to Dublin in the East Bay Athletic League playoff finals, will advance to NorCal Open Division play next week. They’ll likely get a second seed.

“That’s just Justin,” Udenyi said. “He’s always at the right place at the right time. That was amazing. Best game I’ve ever been a part of.”

Dublin, which got 13 points from Montana-bound Tim Falls and 12 second-half points by 6-7 junior Jack Nielsen, had one last chance. After a timeout, Jared Smart’s halfcourt shot drew iron, sending off a loud groan on the Dublin end and wild celebration from De La Salle.

The two teams had split two earlier and similar tightly, down-to-the-wire games. The frantic fourth quarter featured five ties and nine lead changes alone. Nobody led by more than two points.

“That was special,” Pratt said. “What an atmosphere. That was a dream finish.”

Not so for Dublin (28-4), which fought back from 27-19 halftime deficit to take several leads in the second half, the last 49-48 on a follow bucket by Nielsen.

De La Salle point guard Colby Orr, superb all night with 13 points and five assists, made an acrobatic layup with less than a minute to go up 50-49 and after two missed free throws by Dublin, Orr made one more free throw with 15.8 seconds left, missed the second and then fouled Houston, who made two free throws before the final sequence.

Afterward, Dublin coach Tom Costello was beside himself. His team was after its first NCS championship. De La Salle won its second straight and 12th overall.

The Gaels will likely be the top seed in the NorCal Division I playoffs. As they did in the first two games, Costello and the Gaels made superb adjustments at halftime, picking up the pace of the game which was all De La Salle in the first half.

The Spartans constantly worked the ball down low and scored in the paint or on putbacks. In the second half, Nielsen was much more active down low and Falls led the Gaels on the break. De La Salle, however, never wavered and had one last answer.

“We’re so evenly matched,” De La Salle coach Justin Argenal said. “They’re a great team. So well coached. It just came down to one possession.”

Costello said: “This one hurts. It might haunt me for a while because it was right there. But I’m proud of our guys. They competed like hell and it was a hell of a game. The fans definitely got their money’s worth.”

Central Coast Section

Mitty 57, Bellarmine 54 (OT)

Kyle Peterson’s deep 3-pointer with 16 seconds remaining in overtime, his only points of the game, gave Mitty (17-10) the lead and proved to be the decisive basket in the Monarchs’ overtime win in the Open Division championship at Santa Clara University.

Bellarmine (25-2) was called for an offensive foul with 4.7 seconds remaining in overtime and Riley Grigsby sank two free throws to give Mitty a three-point cushion. Bellarmine’s contested 3-point attempt at the buzzer clanked off the rim, snapping the Bells’ 18-game win streak and giving Mitty its third Open Division title in five years.

Grigsby was held to just 13 points combined during Mitty’s two regular-season losses to Bellarmine, but scored a game-high 20 on Friday night.

“On our first play, coach said to go straight to the basket, and it got me going,” said the junior. “I just had to be physical and let the game come to me.”

Mitty held Bellarmine to 2-of-14 3-point shooting on the night. One of those two 3-pointers came from Angelo Athens to give the Bells a 54-52 lead with 35 seconds remaining in overtime. Athens led Bellarmine with 19 points.

Jake Wojcik and Kiran Kruse each finished with 10 points for Bellarmine, which used a 23-4 run to take a 27-17 lead midway through the second quarter. Senior center Mike Diaz and sophomore Joseph Vaughn scored 10 for Mitty. Vaughn’s block at the end of regulation sent the game to overtime.

San Francisco Section

Mission 41, Lowell 40

It wasn’t pretty or a typical high-scoring Mission affair, but the Bears (30-1) won their third straight SFS title at Kezar Pavilion.

After scoring at least 100 points in three of their last four games, the Bears had just 21 points after three quarters but managed 20 in the fourth quarter to avoid the upset bid of the Cardinals (20-7), which lost two previous low-scoring games to Mission during the regular season.

Niamey Harris had 17 points and eight rebounds and Tyrese Johnson added nine points and excellent defense for Mission, which won its fifth section crown in six years. Robert Lee and Ujah Pratt also sparked Mission, which should be a high seed in the NorCal Division 3 playoffs which open next week.

Lowell was led by 13 points from Kevin Fok and 11 by Isaac Finestone. Mission coach Arnold Zelaya praised the game plan by Lowell coach Robert Ray, who won his 300th game on Wednesday, and the Cardinals’ execution.

“Lowell did an amazing job of forcing their pace,” Zelaya said. “In the second half, Robert and Ujah really sparked us and Niamey took over in the fourth quarter with free throws and defense.”