One of the most important priorities for anyone buying a new (or used) car is reliability. If a vehicle is constantly breaking down, no amount of comfort, economy, performance or technology will redeem it. The difficulty facing car buyers is that car reliability is a very hard thing to gauge until you’ve bought the car and are experiencing it first hand.

Fortunately, the Driver Power survey can help. Every year thousands of motorists tell us what they think about the cars they own and we use the information to arm our readers with the inside story on the most reliable cars on sale. Knowing which cars are vulnerable to electrical and/or mechanical faults is highly valuable to anyone thinking about buying a car and that’s exactly what you’ll find below.

• Auto Express Driver Power best cars to own

We have the latest Driver Power survey data on the most reliable new cars (models up to 12 months old) and, on page 2, the same info on the most reliable used cars between 3 and 6 years old. Owners were asked about their satisfaction with the standards of build quality and reliability in the cars they own and drive every day and the results are very enlightening.

When buying a new car these days, few expect there to be any issues but even in our top ten most reliable new cars you will see faults can still occur. That being said, it is usually around the three- to six-year mark (once the manufacturer’s warranty on most models has expired) that cars can develop serious faults. Click through to page two and you will find the latest data on the most reliable cars in that age bracket.

The top 10 most reliable new cars

=9. Lexus CT – 94.55%

Image 2 of 21 Image 2 of 21

In typical Lexus fashion, the CT performed well while not shouting too loudly about it. Few owners had major issues and many complemented its brilliant build quality and engine refinement. If there were reliability gripes to speak of, they normally had their roots in the CT’s electrical systems.

=9. Skoda Octavia – 94.55%

Image 3 of 21 Image 3 of 21

Modern Skodas rank very well for reliability with their owners and the Octavia continues this trend – it was the most reliable Skoda in our entire survey. There were multiple reports from motorists about transmissions troubles, but beyond that, there seemed to be very little to complain about.

8. Toyota Verso – 95.10%

Image 4 of 21 Image 4 of 21

True to its manufacturer’s recent form, the Verso MPV is an incredibly reliable car. While its exterior scores badly with drivers (possibly explained by the fact it has been on sale for nearly a decade) it is the second most reliable car from Toyota, only beaten by the Prius. Of the owners which did have issues, transmission problems were most regularly to blame.

7. Mazda CX-5 – 95.15%

Image 5 of 21 Image 5 of 21

Unlike some of the other cars on this list, the Mazda CX-5 had two main areas where owners reported issues: the brakes and electrical systems. That being said, these were few and far between, helping the Japanese SUV finish just outside the top 5 most reliable cars on sale. Even though the CX-5 performed incredibly well, the MX-5 pipped it to the post as the most reliable Mazda, with the venerable sports car finishing fourth.

6. Honda CR-V – 95.16%

Image 6 of 21 Image 6 of 21

Finding an owner who has had issues with their Honda CR-V is no easy task. Of the few owners which did have problems to report, most said the electrics were to blame. Despite strong performance in the area of reliability, the Japanese SUV ranked poorly for safety features and infotainment in the full Driver Power survey. Still, the strong powertrains were seen as a major benefit by owners.

5. Peugeot 3008 – 95.22%

Image 7 of 21 Image 7 of 21

The Peugeot 3008 is not only the most reliable European car in our Driver Power survey, it won the overall title of Britain's best car to own in Driver Power 2018. Naturally there were few issues reported by its owners but, similar to a lot of the cars in our top 10, if there was anything wrong it could usually be traced back to the electrics. Reliability doesn’t come at the expense of enjoyment with the 3008 either, as owners were delighted with the driving experience.

4. Mazda MX-5 – 95.82%

Image 8 of 21 Image 8 of 21

The Mazda MX-5 marks the beginning of a top four dominated by Asian car manufacturers. Reported issues with the popular sports car were thin on the ground, but the faults that were found to cause drivers headaches were generally electrical. High servicing costs were another thing that owners voiced their annoyance over.

3. Toyota Prius – 95.93%

Image 9 of 21 Image 9 of 21

Despite the Toyota Prius being one of the best selling electric cars globally, the majority of faults reported by owners were not electrical. Instead, they were due to exterior trim and paint issues. The petrol-electric drivetrain came highly praised, which shouldn’t be surprising as Toyota had a huge hand in popularising this type of powertrain with previous generations of the Prius.

2. Kia Sorento – 96.08%

Image 10 of 21 Image 10 of 21

Picking up second place is the seven-seat Kia Sorento. The South Korean showing here that you don’t need to spend a fortune to get a quality, reliable car. Its biggest weakness, according to owners, are its fuel economy and running costs, but strong scores in all other areas make sure it’s held in high regard by owners. In keeping with trends, any issues that were reported with the Sorento tended to be electrical.

1. Lexus NX – 96.25%

Image 11 of 21 Image 11 of 21

The Lexus NX SUV is King (or Queen) of the hill when it comes to reliability. Issues reported from owners are perhaps unsurprisingly very rare, but brake problems were most common of the faults that were reported. Elsewhere, owners rank the NX poorly for running costs (it came a disappointing 61st in the Driver Power MPG and running cost standings) but highly for interior, practicality and safety features.

The best of the rest