Claude VonStroke brought his Dirtybird BBQ concert series to Belle Isle in Detroit for a two-day celebration in August, 2016. (Photo: John Froelich, Special to the Free Press)

With more than 85 performances scheduled on five stages during Movement's three-day weekend, there are a lot of choices for getting your feet moving and head bobbing.

Here are some best bets – a mix of big national names, influential Detroiters and insider favorites.

More: Inner City marks 30 years of big fun

Movement 2018 afterparties:14 top events at five key venues

Saturday

Maceo Plex: This globe-trotting DJ and producer has a celestial vibe that draws from new wave, classic Detroit techno and more. The most recent DJ Mag's poll of the world's best DJs lists him at No. 91, calling him "prolific and unfaltering." 10:30 p.m., Pyramid Stage

Maceo Plex (Photo: Maceo Plex)

Stacey Pullen: The Detroit producer-DJ's insistent, buoyant techno-house has provided Memorial Day Weekend highlights going back to the days when the event was called DEMF. Don't be surprised if there's a tip of the hat to his just-released mix disc on Carl Craig's Detroit Love label. 7:30 p.m., Stargate Stage

Buy Photo Stacey Pullen plays during the 2016 Movement Electronic Music Festival at Hart Plaza in downtown Detroit. (Photo: Salwan Georges, Detroit Free Press)

Claude VonStroke: Born Barclay Crenshaw in metro Detroit, he has become a San Fran-based dance-music star via his label Dirtybird Records. He has a fun-loving style that pays respects to his Motor City roots — most notably the massive club hit "Who's Afraid of Detroit?" 10:30 p.m., Movement Stage

Claude VonStroke brought his Dirtybird BBQ concert series to Belle Isle in Detroit for a two-day celebration in August, 2016. (Photo: John Froelich, Special to the Free Press)

Sunday

Shigeto: You'll hear jazz, hip-hop and found-sound influences laced through the work of the Detroit-based Shigeto, whose recorded work can be ambient, propulsive or both. This is a live performance, which could mean a chance to see him moving dexterously between a drum kit and mixer. 6 p.m., Red Bull Music Stage

Shigeto performing in San Francisco in 2016. (Photo: George Nikitin)

Seth Troxler: Kalamazoo-born Troxler has been a regular presence at Movement for more than a decade. He became one of the dance-music world's biggest names in the early 2010s. Expect an arty, sometimes winking, approach to techno and house that never loses its sense of fun. 8:30 p.m., Movement Stage

Seth Troxler performs at the 2014 Movement Electronic Music Festival at Hart Plaza in downtown Detroit. (Photo: Jarrad Henderson, Jarrad Henderson)

Kink: The Bulgarian producer-remixer has been a regular presence at or near the top of Resident Advisor's annual list that celebrates electronic artists who perform live — rather than DJ — sets. As the Movement website puts it, he's known for being able to compose beats in real time "that most couldn't program in weeks of studio work." 9:30 p.m., Stargate Stage

Monday

Inner City: Led by Kevin Saunderson and the vocals of Paris Grey, Inner City gave Detroit electronic music its first real chart success with late-'80s tracks like "Good Life" and "Big Fun." This live, 30th-anniversary performance assembles a new lineup that will include original bandleader Dennis White. 9 p.m., Movement Stage

Diplo: One of festival's most populist bookings, the L.A.-based hip-hop DJ and producer made his name with his Mad Decent label and Block Party events and recording projects like Major Lazer and EDM super-duo Jack U. He's been in the headlines lately as news broke about two collaborations: one with super-producer Mark Ronson (under the name Silk City) and the other with Will Smith — on the official song for the 2018 World Cup. 10:30 p.m., Red Bull Music Stage

Wu-Tang Clan: "Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers)" is a consensus pick for one of the greatest albums in hip-hop history. All nine living members of the legendary Staten Island collective will be on hand for this main-stage, festival-closing performance that celebrates the 25th anniversary of the groundbreaking disc. You know you wanna hear that Wu-Tang joint. 10:30 p.m., Movement Stage

Ghostface Killah and Method Man of Wu-Tang Clan perform onstage at the Mtn Dew ICE launch event on January 18, 2018 in Brooklyn, New York. (Photo: Dimitrios Kambouris, Getty Images for Mountain Dew)

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2x7AjY5