Buy Photo Teresa Bradley from Nashville dances to John "Jammin" Collins during the Movement Electronic Music Festival at Hart Plaza in Detroit, Sunday, May 27, 2018. (Photo: Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Monday got off to a hot, languid start and looked headed for a cool, combustible finish as the Movement festival wrapped up at Hart Plaza.

Just as it was on the first two days, the musical mood was warm and joyous, as DJs and other performers took dancing fest-goers on another round of sonic journeys along Detroit’s riverfront.

Sounds got going Monday at the Stargate stage with Chuck Daniels and at the main bowl with the soulful Stacey (Hotwaxx) Hale, part of an 89-performer weekend lineup dominated by hometown artists.

Sunday, in particular, had brought musical vibes akin to the festival’s early days nearly two decades ago, full of live performances touched with jazz and funk (Shigeto, Will Sessions-Amp Fiddler) and expressive main-stage sets from the likes of Eddie Fowlkes and John Collins – whose work got textured with stellar sax work from jazz player De’Sean Jones.

Sweltering temperatures and a baking sun kept the early crowds light. On Monday afternoon, most of those roaming the grounds were undaunted fans and the teen fest-goers – too young for any late-night afterparties – who needed to soak in what they could at Hart Plaza.

While nighttime audiences grew significantly, overall Movement crowds seemed smaller than in the past. An attendance report was not released by producer Paxahau Events, which in recent years had announced three-day crowds of 100,000-plus.

Monday’s music was scheduled to culminate with several heavy-hitters, including Kevin Saunderson’s partially reunited Inner City on the main stage and hit-making producer Diplo on the Red Bull Music stage.

Rap collective Wu-Tang Clan was set to close out the fest.

More: Amid surge of festivals, Movement asserts its role as techno ground zero

While the weekend confirmed that the techno fest is in solid shape, the same can’t be said of Hart Plaza: Between the crumbling concrete and ankle-twisting, unseated bricks, it was clear the 43-year-old venue needs an overhaul. Emergency repairs this spring by the City of Detroit were a start, but there’s much more to be done.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xmJNif