If you’re participating in the big migration of aviation enthusiasts to Oshkosh, Wisconsin, next week for EAA’s annual AirVenture, you are probably already aware that there is way too much to see to fit in to even a weeklong visit. But there are some airplanes that you won’t want to miss as you’re walking the expansive show grounds.

Several recently restored warbirds will be on the ground. The most impressive one is the B-29 named Doc, which flew for the first time in decades just last year. In addition to being on display, Doc will perform alongside the only other flying B-29 in the world, CAF’s Fifi. CAF is also bringing several other noteworthy airplanes, including B-17, two B-25s, an A-26, and the C-47 named That’s All Brother, which led the D-Day invasion in Normandy. A stroll to the warbirds section is sure to pay off with a look at rows of P-51 Mustangs, T-6 Texans, Spitfires, DC-3s and much, much more.

Flying’s Innovation Award nominees, Honda Aircraft’s HondaJet, CubCrafters’ XCub, and Piper’s M600, all recently Part 23 certified, will be on display in the manufacturers’ booths. It’s a great opportunity to sit in the airplanes and talk to the experts about what makes them so special.

Other exciting recently certified airplanes on display at the show include the Diamond DA62 piston twin, immediately to the left as you enter the AirVenture show grounds; Mooney’s single-engine piston M20V Acclaim Ultra and M20U Ovation Ultra, near Hangar B; and the EASA certified aerobatic GameBird by Game Composites, which will be parked in front of the International Aerobatic Club’s building near the flight line. The highly anticipated Cirrus SF50 Vision Jet will be on display at the Cirrus booth near the center of the outdoor exhibits; and Daher’s TBM 900 and 930, the fastest certified single-engine turboprop-series of airplanes, near Boeing Plaza.

Some airplanes on the brink of certification are well worth checking out as well. You won’t want to miss Epic Aircraft’s E1000 turboprop, which is expected to achieve certification in the next year. And be sure to take a peek at the Stratos 714 VLJ, which recently took flight.

If the prospect of electric flight excites you, you can check out Aero Electric Aircraft’s most recent flying prototype, the Sun Flyer 2, at Booth 19 on the left side as you enter the show grounds. Want to check out a flying car? The PAL-V Liberty is one of the most promising prospects for the future.

This is just a start and there is no question that you will get home from Oshkosh with the feeling that you missed out on seeing something truly spectacular. Check out the gallery below to see some vintage gems from previous years.