Three and a half weeks into the job, NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine used a public forum to assure his new employees that believes humans contribute to global warming.

Speaking to NASA offices across the country, Bridenstine took questions from both the audience in Washington, D.C, as well as from other offices online. An anonymous employee of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California asked a number of questions about Bridenstine's beliefs on climate change and how the agency planned on handling its Earth sciences work.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

“I don’t deny the consensus," Bridenstine said at the town hall meeting. "I believe fully in climate change and that we human beings are contributing to it in a major way.”



The comments represent a new tone for the head of NASA, who had previously expressed skepticism about human contribution to climate change. At the NASA forum held May 17, Bridenstine addressed comments that he made in 2013 criticizing the Obama administration for wasting money on climate change when Oklahoma needed money for hurricane relief.



"I said these words: temperatures quit rising ten years ago," he recalled to NASA employees. From 1998 through 2013 had global warming appeared to be stalling, but in 2015 revised data showed that no such stall ever occurd.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Bridenstine also said he agrees with the international consensus that carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas and is a major driver of rising temperatures. "We are putting it into the atmosphere in volumes we haven’t seen before," the head of NASA said. "We are responsible for it.”



His acceptance of climate change puts him at odds with other members of the Trump administration. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, for example, believes in the need for further debate over carbon dioxide being a greenhouse gas. The White House also tried to defund four NASA Earth-observing missions, and lower the overall Earth Sciences budget, but Congress included funding for the missions in the national spending bill.