Navy awards contract to ViaSat for aircraft communication systems



by James Laporta



Washington (UPI) May 14, 2018



ViaSat Inc. was awarded a contract from the U.S. Navy for advanced aircraft communication systems.

The deal, announced Friday by the Department of Defense, is a modified contract worth $85.5 million.

The contract modifies a previous Pentagon award under the terms of an indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity multiple award contract.

The Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command awarded the contract to ViaSat in order to enable the delivery of the Block Upgrade II retrofit of Multifunctional Information Distribution System low volume terminals, according to the Defense Department

The Multifunctional Information Distribution System is classified as a C4I system, and is designed to handle advance command, control, communications, computing and intelligence tasks.

In practical terms, the Multifunctional Information Distribution System, or MIDS, is used for "secure, high-capacity, jam-resistant, digital data and voice communications capability" by the Navy, Air Force and Army, according to the Pentagon.

The MIDS system can be intergrated into mutliple fixed- and rotary-winged aircraft, such as the MH-60 and the C-130

Work on the contract will occur in Carlsbad, Calif., and is expected to be complete by May 2024.

No funds are obligated to ViaSat at the time of award.



Related Links

Read the latest in Military Space Communications Technology at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Al Udeid Air Base, Qatar (SPX) Apr 30, 2018

