Navy contracts with Rolls-Royce for Triton drone engines



by James Laporta



Washington (UPI) May 8, 2018



The U.S. Navy has contracted Rolls-Royce for turbofan engines for the MQ-4C Triton unmanned maritime surveillance aircraft.

The deal announced by the Department of Defense is valued at more than $25.9 million under the terms of a firm-fixed price contract, which is a modification to a previous Pentagon award.

The agreement between the Navy and Rolls-Royce enables the British company to provide turbofan engines for the Northrop Grumman-manufactured MQ-4C Triton unmanned maritime surveillance aircraft.

The MQ-4C Triton was modeled after the RQ-4 Global Hawk surveillance unmanned aerial vehicle and is designed for long-range, high-endurance surveillance missions over oceans and coastal areas.

The Triton has a flight range of more than 9,000 miles and a 24-hour operational period. Northrop Grumman delivered the first Triton to the Navy in November 2017, according to previous UPI reporting.

Work on the contract will occur in Indiana and is expected to be complete in December 2021.

No funds will be obligated to Rolls-Royce at time of the award. As individual orders are received, funds will be allocated from the Navy's fiscal 2018 through 2021 aircraft procurement funds or Navy working capital funds, the Pentagon said.



Related Links

UAV News - Suppliers and Technology





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Washington (UPI) May 7, 2018

