Authorities in western North Carolina canceled evacuations in an area south of the Lake Tahoma dam, which had been in "imminent danger" of failing after a landslide. The landslide was set off by heavy rainfall associated with Alberto, which made landfall as a subtropical storm on Memorial Day.

Local officials said Wednesday morning that an engineer had performed a safety inspection and determined that the evacuation order was no longer needed.

After midnight Tuesday, the National Weather Service had declared a flash flood emergency in the area:

McDowell county emergency management reports water is spilling around the sides of Lake Tahoma dam. Evacuations ongoing south of the dam. THIS IS A LIFE-THREATENING SITUATION. HEED ALL EVACUATION ORDERS IMMEDIATELY! If you are not threatened by floodwaters, shelter in place. — NWS GSP (@NWSGSP) May 30, 2018

CBS Spartanburg, S.C. affiliate WSPA-TV reports that a state of emergency was declared in McDowell County.

McDowell County Emergency Management said some 2,000 people from campgrounds and residential communities near the dam and lake had evacuated, with roughly 200 at shelters. Old Fort and Marion are the hardest-hit communities.

Shelters were set up at two churches and a YMCA.

McDowell County Emergency Management Deputy Director Adrienne Jones told The Associated Press five minor injuries have been reported during water rescues as creeks and streams overflowed their banks and rockslides closed roads.

The Twitter account for the area's National Weather Service office retweeted a picture showing floodwaters in Burke County.

@DukeEnergyStorm @NWSGSP this is the 8:30am picture at my family cabin at the confluence of Muddy Creek and Linville about a half mile downstream of the Bridgewater Hydro Plant (Burke County). Water rising quick. @wxbrad @FHWxN pic.twitter.com/MqTlUYRg6x — wxchristopher (@wxchristopher) May 30, 2018

CBS Greensboro, N.C., affiliate WFMY-TV reports a mudslide in Old Fort forced the shutdown of a portion of Interstate 40. Later, the North Carolina Department of Transportation said the right two westbound lanes and the left eastbound lane remained closed, probably until Friday afternoon.

WFMY-TV said western North Carolina communities were on high alert due to heavy rains and flash flooding and possible mudslides from Alberto. According to the AP, forecasters warned that the leftovers of the Atlantic hurricane season's first named storm were still capable of causing treacherous flooding as heavy precipitation spreads deeper into the nation's midsection. Flash flood watches were in effect for parts of several states from Alabama through Tennessee, Kentucky, Illinois, the Carolinas and Virginia and West Virginia.

Lake Tahoma is a private lake in the mountains of Western North Carolina, located in McDowell County.