Advances in marine electronics and networking capabilities have made coastal cruising more fun and convenient than ever for boating families. One example of this practical technology is Garmin’s GPSMAP® 1242 Touch multifunction display with a built-in chartplotter and GPS. This slim-line model features a 12-inch color touch-screen and gives you the flexibility to easily build the system that suits your style of cruising. It also lets you add new navigation capabilities and network sensors as you expand your cruising horizons in the future.

Garmin’s GPSMAP 1242 Touch chartplotter features a 12” color touchscreen display. Garmin

To help guide your cruising adventure, you’ll want electronic charts. Continuing with the example of the GPSMAP 1242 Touch, this chartplotter comes pre-loaded with BlueChart® g2 and LakeVü HD maps, featuring depth and shallow-water shading to keep you off the shoals. The GPSMAP 1242 Touch also includes built-in Quickdraw Contours, allowing you to create your own HD maps on-screen with 1-foot contours and tailor the maps to fit your needs, be it cruising, fishing or diving. You can keep the data to yourself or share with the Garmin Quickdraw Community. There might be times when you want to leave port before daylight or fog closes in during your cruise. This is where a marine radar can offer great benefits to coastal-cruising boats. Networking a radar with a multifunction display (MFD) is a common solution. Garmin’s GMR Fantom radars with MotionScope Doppler technology, for example, are designed for simple integration with the GPSMAP 1242 Touch. This versatile MFD also supports FLIR thermal cameras to help you detect and navigate around hazards at night.

Full networking capabilities let you build your marine system with radar, autopilot, sonar modules, instruments and sensors. Garmin

You might also want to capture video of the fun during your cruise or keep an eye on the engine room or another compartment. A cool solution is to network one or more cameras, such as Garmin VIRB Ultra 30, with an MFD, such as the GPSMAP 1242 Touch. Networking an autopilot with your MFD will prove especially handy on long cruises to help you stay on course and stave off the monotony of manning the wheel, though always maintaining a lookout while underway is an absolute must. You can also check the current sea conditions and weather forecasts anywhere along your cruise with the addition of a marine weather receiver, such as the Garmin GXM 53. If you’d prefer to use a keyboard control with the GPSMAP 1242 Touch, Garmin offers the easy-to-add GRID keyboard.

Supports Axis and FLIR thermal cameras, GRID™ keypad, GXM™ 53 marine weather receiver, VIRB® camera streaming and more. Garmin

Should you want to stay posted on bottom depth during a cruising adventure, you can network your MFD with a sonar module. The GPSMAP 1242 Touch, for instance, is designed to integrate with a variety of Garmin sonar modules and transducers. This includes the Panoptix PS51 sonar system that, among other capabilities, allows you to see forward under the water in real time to detect dangerous shoals and reefs well ahead of time.

Includes preloaded BlueChart® g2 charts and LakeVü HD maps plus Depth Range Shading and Shallow Water Shading. Garmin

Staying connected with the community of boaters and service during a cruise often becomes a priority when, for example, you need to find the closest fuel dock or marina. One of the newest means of staying connected is via the ActiveCaptain® app. The GPSMAP 1242 Touch’s built-in Wi-Fi supports this app, creating a connection between your mobile device and the GPSMAP 1242 Touch. This allows you to access the charts, maps, services and critical information while cruising.

Built-in Wi-Fi® pairs with the free ActiveCaptain app for access to charts, maps and more. Garmin