Buy Photo "Waiting" by artist Kaws overlooks Campus Martius in Detroit, Sunday, May 20, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Up for less than a week, downtown Detroit’s new high-profile piece of public art has already become a target for vandalism.

Someone using red marker wrote “Im Sorry Massuh I Know In Not Allowed Tuh Talk” on the sidewalk directly in front of the 17-foot, 2-ton bronze "Waiting" statue by contemporary artist Kaws at One Campus Martius, the headquarters of Dan Gilbert's Quicken Loans.

The statue was installed last weekend and officially unveiled on Tuesday. The comment was photographed around 7:30 a.m. Friday by Khalil Copeland and posted to the Instagram account @notinmyname_____. Copeland also used the Instagram Stories feature to add commentary on top of the photo.

Graffiti at the foot of the news Kaws "Waiting" sculpture at One Campus Martius. The photo -- and commentary placed on top of the visual -- was posted to Instagram by Khalil Copeland. (Photo: Khalil Copeland)

By the midafternoon Friday, the remark had been removed from the sidewalk. A spokesperson at Bedrock, Gilbert's real estate firm, said the company had no comment on the incident. Library Street Collective, which helped facilitate the project alongside Bedrock, declined comment as well.

It's unclear if the message is a general one about the work of art itself — or directed at the statue's creator Kaws or real estate magnate Gilbert and his wife Jennifer, who purchased the statue as part of their public art portfolio featured at multiple Bedrock properties downtown.

A Detroit police spokeswoman said Friday night that it was not immediately clear whether a police report had been filed about the incident. In a high-profile 2014 case, security for Gilbert's Rock Ventures used recorded video from Rock Ventures cameras to help identify three teenagers who had vandalized a building that shared an alley with a Gilbert-owned structure. The teens were ordered to complete 60 hours of community service, which included removing graffiti from Detroit buildings.

In fall of 2017, the Free Press reported that security cameras were installed throughout Campus Martius Park. The One Campus Martius building is on the park's north side. A live video feed from the security cameras goes to Detroit police and the security operations of select downtown businesses, including Gilbert's Rock Ventures, the Free Press reported at the time.

More:In Campus Martius Park, someone will always be watching you

Created by Brooklyn-based artist Brian Donnelly under the alias Kaws, the statue features two figures known as “Companion” — a recurring character in the Kaws lexicon that represents the process of growing up and often reflects personal aspects pulled from the artist’s own life. Its arrival was the subject of considerable attention in Detroit, drawing large amounts of news coverage and social media chatter, while also earning notice in the art world nationally.

With its arrival this month, "Waiting" joined a diverse array of public art in Gilbert’s Detroit Art Collection, which features local artists like Scott Hocking, immersive installations like the Belt Alley and massive murals by internationally acclaimed street artists like Shepard Fairey and How & Nosm.

Public art is often used as a deterrent to vandalism, but it can also act as a lightning rod for debate and commentary – including altering or vandalizing the work to send a message.

“It’s something that’s going to be polarizing for a lot of reasons,” says Dan Armand.

For the past 15 years, Armand has watched the evolution of street art as both an accomplished artist and as the chief creative officer for 1xRun, a Detroit-based publishing house that specializes in street-art culture. It has facilitated nearly 200 public art pieces throughout Detroit.

“The fact that they didn’t deface the piece says they probably wanted attention versus rebelling against the piece itself,” says Armand. “No one took credit for it. Usually in graffiti culture, you do stuff to get credit and recognition. I doubt that it was someone in the graffiti scene. I think it was someone who wanted to ruffle some feathers.”

Armand says Kaws’ background in graffiti exemplifies how street art can act as a two-way street for creating and responding to others’ work in a variety of ways.

Nichole Christian is a writer and co-author of the 2014 book “Canvas Detroit,” which dives into the history of public art in Detroit as well as the role it plays today.

By enlisting an artist from outside the city to create art for one of Detroit’s most high-profile locations, says Christian, “some people think it’s an invitation to respond and say, ‘Wait a minute — we’ve been bypassed.' ”

“In a city where you have world-class sculptures from (local artists like) Charles McGee, Tiff Massey and Robert Sestok, it’s curious to me that homegrown talent continues to be a creative afterthought,” says Christian. “When you have a moment to make a huge statement, it behooves a city with a history of not listening so well to look around at home.”

In recent years, downtown Detroit has seen the arrival of high-profile pieces from local and non-local artists alike.

While internationally renowned artists like Fairey and How & Nosm boast some of the biggest murals, 94-year-old homegrown art icon McGee created his largest work to date last year with his “Unity” mural at 28Grand — a piece that is part of Gilbert’s Detroit Art Collection and is featured on a Bedrock property.

Still, Christian points to another massive bronze statue just down the block as an example of how outsider art in Detroit can be polarizing: “The Monument to Joe Louis” – a.k.a. the Joe Louis fist – which, like the Kaws statue, is a corporately funded public art piece. It was created by Mexican-born, California-based sculptor Robert Graham. It has been vandalized multiple times, including in 2004, when two men were arrested for painting it white. They also left photos of two white Detroit Police Officers who had been slain and signed a note from the "Fighting Whities."

“Kaws has been quite a cause for debate since it went up, but there’s that same thread throughout — public art and its ability to put a place into context,” says Christian in referencing the two separate incidents.

Today, the Brooklyn-based Kaws is a major player in the world of contemporary art, with his pieces regularly selling for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Before he gained broad acclaim for his sculptures and paintings, he started as a graffiti writer in New Jersey in the early '90s.

“It’s good that no one tagged the piece itself,” says Armand. “It’s still vandalism. It’s still on the sidewalk but, for a guy like Kaws, he’s known for essentially doing the same thing. It might not be a message like that, but he was putting his art up in places and saying something where it wasn’t encouraged. That goes both ways.”

Buy Photo A pedestrian passes by the 17-foot statue titled "Waiting" by artist Kaws at the main entrance to One Campus Martius in Detroit, Sunday, May 20, 2018. (Photo: Kathleen Galligan, Detroit Free Press)





Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xfVsiU