Fond du Lac, Wisc. (May 18, 2018) – Mercury Marine, the world leader in marine propulsion and technology, is pleased to introduce multiple new 4.6L V-8 outboard engine models – the 250 and 300hp Verado, 250 and 300hp FourStroke, and 200, 225, 250 and 300hp Pro XS – plus the Pro XS® 175hp 3.4L V-6. These next-generation outboard engines are part of the largest single new-product development program Mercury has undertaken in its nearly 80-year-history, which has prompted a major investment in expanding its manufacturing footprint.

New Line of V-8 Mercury Outboard Engines Showing 300-hp models with the Advanced Midsection (AMS) and Color Panels. Mercury Marine

“In Miami, we said the V-6 was step one of our 2018 introductions and we are thrilled to officially announce step two,” said John Pfeifer, Mercury Marine president. “These new V-8 engines, like the V-6, will set a new benchmark in the marine industry in the eyes of the consumer.” Mercury’s new V-6 and V-8 outboard engines are highly configurable to meet the needs of a wide variety of boating segments, from Verado’s refined performance, to the FourStroke’s fuel efficiency and rigging versatility, to the competitive edge that Pro XS provides serious sport fishermen. Along with the 3.4L V-6 family released in Miami, the new V-8 engines fill out Mercury’s industry leading portfolio in the 175-300hp range. “These engines are naturally aspirated, durable, powerful and provide options for the consumer that they’ve never had before,” said Pfeifer. “This new lineup aligns with what consumers are asking for and we are delighted to deliver it to them.” New 250 & 300hp Verado The new 250 and 300hp V-8 Verado outboard engines raise the bar for the marine industry – again. Continuing Verado’s legacy as the most refined outboard engine on the water, the new V-8 plaform provides exhilarating performance across the rpm range. Sea trials have shown the 300hp Verado is up to 20 percent quicker and two mph faster than the closest competitor, while still providing up to eight percent better fuel economy.

Twin 300-hp Mercury Verado Outboards power a Mako 284 Mercury Marine

The V-8 Verados are compatible with Mercury Joystick Piloting for Outboards for maximum maneuverability and control, and feature Mercury-engineered digital controls and electro-hydraulic power steering for smooth operation. Equipped with Adaptive Speed Control, they deliver increased throttle response and a “sportier” feel. The Verado driving experience is further enhanced by class-leading NVH reduction for an ultra-quiet ride. The new V-8 models’ next-generation Advanced Mid-Section (AMS) incorporates perimeter mounts that deliver the lowest vibration in the industry, while sound barriers make it the quietest outboard in its segment. Exclusive Advanced Sound Control technology allows users to toggle between ultra-quiet operation and a “throatier”-sounding sport mode. New 250 & 300hp FourStroke The new 250 and 300hp V-8 FourStroke outboard engines are high-tech without being high-stress, delivering powerful performance while remaining quiet, efficient, reliable and strong. The high-displacement, quad-cam design of the new V-8 powerhead generates plenty of torque, especially at mid-range. The 300hp FourStroke delivers up to 9% more torque than the nearest competitor at 3500-4500 rpm. It boasts class-leading 4.6L displacement yet is the lightest in the 300hp class by more than 10 pounds. Combine ample power with lightest-in-class weight, and the result is exhilarating FourStroke performance from a highly reliable engine.

New V-8 outboards from Mercury feature an inter-balanced design. Mercury Marine

These new FourStrokes are also exceptionally versatile, offering consumers choices between mechanical or digital (DTS) controls and hydraulic or power steering. This versatility makes them the ideal outboard engine choice for repowering a wide range of different hulls. The new V8 FourStroke engines are also available in multiple colors and can be further customized with the addition of an accent panel, as detailed below. Color Options Mercury’s Warm Fusion, Cold Fusion and Pearl Fusion white cowl color options plus the popular Phantom Black, combined with five factory accent color panels and “paint-ready” panels, let owners mix and match or paint their own panels to further personalize their engine. These colors are available for both the V-8 FourStroke and the V-8 Verado outboard engines.

The ability to color-match-even custom-match-the outboard to the boat is a feature of these new Mercury Marine outboard engines. Mercury Marine