nissan

Nissan to cut N.A. output up to 20% to shore up U.S. profitability, report says May 29 Nissan is slashing vehicle production by as much as 20 percent in North America to cope with falling profitability in the United States, Japan's Nikkei business daily reported on Monday.



Renault-Nissan invests in China, U.S., French startups May 23 The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance's new venture capital fund is backing autonomous driving, artificial intelligence and solid-state battery startups.



Nissan parents to benefit from Milk Stork partnership May 23 Author: Alexa St. John The automaker is offering a shipping benefit for employees working and traveling in North America with Milk Stork, the only breast milk shipping company in the United States.



Ghosn: It'll take time to get Renault-Nissan deal right May 23 Carlos Ghosn tamped down expectations of a quick deal to combine Nissan and Renault, saying the specter of failed mergers in his industry loomed large.



That's one accessorized Nissan Armada ... or Patrol May 21 Author: Lindsay Chappell Nissan decked out its Armada for fun -- and then called it a Patrol.



Nissan CEO denies Renault merger talks May 21 Author: Hans Greimel Nissan CEO Hiroto Saikawa dismisses reports that his Japanese carmaker is hammering out full integration with longtime alliance partner Renault, saying "There is no fact to the effect that we are negotiating any merger."



For Nissan in U.S. it's no pain, no gain May 21 Author: Hans Greimel Following its 28 percent U.S. sales plunge in April, Nissan promises that the short-term pain will be worth the long-term gain. Starting this summer, CEO Hiroto Saikawa says, Nissan and its dealers will begin reaping the rewards of newfound discipline.



Nissan's 54-year old CFO retires May 18 Author: Lindsay Chappell Joe Peter, who spent most of his career at General Motors, has retired as CFO of Nissan.



Nissan seeking better terms in Renault merger talks, report says May 18 As Nissan and Renault discuss ways -- including a possible merger -- to strengthen their ties, Nissan is resisting a combination unless the company gains more clout in key areas, Bloomberg reported.



EV batteries present new challenges for firefighters May 16 Fires on electric vehicles are rare, but the volatile chemistry of their batteries and the need for special training on how to extinguish them raises new safety questions as automakers are poised to dramatically increase production.



Nissan profits fall on foreign exchange losses, onetime costs May 14 Author: Hans Greimel Nissan reported a 12 percent slide in operating profit in the most recent quarter as foreign exchange rate losses, deteriorating sales mix and onetime costs.

