Dealer Peter Lanzavecchia, shown at the New York auto show, is moving reconditioning work in-house to boost revenue. Photo credit: JIM HENRY

Dealer Peter Lanzavecchia, shown at the New York auto show, is moving reconditioning work in-house to boost revenue. Photo credit: JIM HENRY

MARLTON, N.J. — Facing slimmer margins and slow revenue growth in fixed operations, dealer Peter Lanzavecchia is moving used-vehicle reconditioning and detailing in-house, instead of contracting those jobs, and is marketing detailing work to service customers.

These moves will save money and increase revenue, Lanzavecchia predicts. He owns Burns Buick-GMC in this Philadelphia suburb, along with next-door Burns Hyundai, which has a premium channel Genesis franchise.

"I hope to expand customer-pay detailing," he told Fixed Ops Journal. "It's another revenue stream. As maintenance becomes a little thinner, with the product quality improved so much, people aren't coming in as much. We're looking to replace that revenue, and cosmetics is an area we're looking at."

Lanzavecchia says he's confident that detailing will be a popular offering in his market. He already provides courtesy washes to service customers.

"You see it at premium-brand dealerships," he said. "Did you ever see a dirty BMW 7 series or Mercedes S class? Pretty rarely. People like to keep those cars clean, and we think a lot of people with other kinds of cars will, too. Think of the convenience of getting [detailing] done when you're getting a courtesy wash anyway."

Some customers will be in too much of a hurry, and others won't want to spend the extra money, Lanzavecchia concedes.

"We service around 100 cars per day, between Buick, GMC and Hyundai," he said. "Of those, probably 70 are pickup and drop-off the same day, so unless they come in early, you probably can't really offer them detailing."

Spend it to make it

Lanzavecchia's dealerships handle detailing work in four bays at the Hyundai store's service department. But he has acquired a nearby former Jeep dealership. Once he remodels the facility's 36 service bays, he plans to consolidate scattered operations and expand service, used-vehicle reconditioning, detailing and body shop work.

Lanzavecchia is installing a car wash and detailing center in 12 of the old bays. They would look at home at a BMW or Mercedes-Benz dealership. The car wash will recycle wastewater. Detailing workstations will dispense liquid products such as wax and tire cleaner from central tanks, along with exhaust mitigation equipment — all from supplier Eurovac in North York, Ontario.

The detail center at Burns Buick-GMC is a customer of supplier Eurovac, whose sales manager, Rob Retter, displays company products at last month's NADA Show in Las Vegas. Photo credit: JOE WILSSENS

The company seeks to expand its U.S. dealership business in part by expanding into reconditioning and car wash and detailing equipment, says Rob Retter, Eurovac's sales manager. He calls the Burns facility one of the supplier's biggest U.S. dealership projects.

Eurovac's core dealership business has been providing dust and fume extraction systems, Retter says. The company has more than 50 U.S. dealership customers, he adds. Eurovac also makes central vacuum systems and portable vacuums.

Eye for detail

In addition to installing upscale equipment, Lanzavecchia says he is investing in training for new detailers.

He plans to get them certified by the International Detailing Association and to advertise that distinction.

The association, in St. Paul, Minn., certifies detailers but does not provide training, says Executive Director Sheryle Hazard. The group's 1,100 members primarily do auto detailing at independent locations, but the association is marketing itself to new-vehicle dealers as well, Hazard says.

"Currently, we do not have a lot of members who work in dealerships," she said, "but that is something that we are concentrating very heavily on for the coming year."

Justin Labato, the association's president, says his group seeks to improve the image of detailers "to pull us away from the way most of the public views detailers ... a guy in the back under a tent, washing cars because he can't get a better job."

Lanzavecchia says that trained, certified detailers at his dealerships will provide significant value to customers.

"It's not a kid with a bucket and a hose," he said.