Did you see that people on your social feeds all had the oh-so-clever idea of rebooting Roseanne without Roseanne Barr? When ABC entertainment chief Channing Dungey canceled Barr’s show after her racist tweet about former Obama advisor Valerie Jarrett, so many people on my feeds, all on their own, came up with the same idea: “Kill her off and make it about Dan,” they said. “Call it The Conner Family,” taking a cue from when Valerie Harper was fired from her own show in the ’80s, Sandy Duncan was brought in, and it was renamed The Hogan Family.

Another meme is going around with a pic of Laurie Metcalf in a mock ad for a spin-off named “Jackie”, with the tag line of “You watched it for her anyway.” Jim Parsons was among the ones who made it go viral:

haha YES! #lauriemetcalf #ilovelauriemetcalf A post shared by Jim Parsons (@therealjimparsons) on May 29, 2018 at 3:14pm PDT

The idea was that Roseanne would be just as good without its alt-right-batshit-conspiracy-tweeting star, given the great performances by John Goodman, Metcalf, and others. After all, the show was centering around Darlene (Sara Gilbert) and not Rosie anyway, right?

Please, folks. Everyone needs to just stop.

There’s a reason why the Roseanne reboot was so popular, for better or worse: Roseanne Barr. Her unique stamp on her original show built up millions of fans over the nine years it was on the air the first time around, and the 25 years it was on in syndication (until every cable channel pulled the reruns yesterday). The ’80s/’90s Roseanne, whether she went by Barr, Arnold, or no last name, took pains to show that her lower-middle-class upbringing, pre-stardom life and feminist viewpoint were shown throughout the series, leaving many a well-meaning writer and showrunner in her wake (including co-creator Matt Williams, current comedy poobah Chuck Lorre, and Bruce Helford, who came back to run the show during its comeback).

This is why the comparison with The Hogan Family doesn’t hold: Valerie Harper may have been the star of Valerie, but it was a pretty standard family sitcom, which is why lifting her out was so easy, especially with the burgeoning stardom of Jason Bateman to fill the vacuum.

And we need to not be naive about this: The 2018 Roseanne’s controversial views and support of Trump were the very reason why so many people tuned into the premiere of the reboot. The producers, ABC, and the show’s stars could have talked about the show exploring the issues of the working class until they were blue in the face, but they know and we know that people were watching to get a new weekly dose of Barr, whether it was fans of hers from the ’90s or ones of more recent vintage, that loved her tweets and her appearances on conspiracy-heavy shows like Info Wars. They felt there was finally a network show for them, even if most of the stories from the show’s first season weren’t about any issues they cared about and were, in fact, more left-of-center in perspective.

Without Barr, they’d likely see The Connor Family as just a bunch of “snowflakes” complaining about not having healthcare. Given Roseanne‘s ratings decline from its premiere as the show went on, losing almost half of the premiere’s audience, ABC likely would have seen a further decline as people checked out the re-reboot and decided to switch to something else.

There’s another factor at play here: Gilbert, Goodman and Metcalf all have better things to do than to try to keep the franchise alive without its title star. Gilbert, whose idea this whole thing was to begin with, is likely going to go back to being one of the EPs on The Talk and just chalk this up to not being able to go home again. Goodman is always in demand. And, for goodness sakes, Metcalf just came off an Oscar nomination for Lady Bird; she won’t be lacking for work anytime soon.

Is it a shame that Roseanne’s unhinged personality cost us the opportunity to visit the Conners for another season? Absolutely. But Roseanne without Roseanne isn’t a show I want to see, and many people, when faced with that reality, would likely feel the same way, despite whatever they said on Twitter.

Joel Keller (@joelkeller) writes about food, entertainment, parenting and tech, but he doesn’t kid himself: he’s a TV junkie. His writing has appeared in the New York Times, Slate, Salon, VanityFair.com, Playboy.com, Fast Company’s Co.Create and elsewhere.