NRA Applauds Zinke's Accomplishments on One-Year Anniversary

Fairfax, Va.— The National Rifle Association's Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA) celebrates Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's one year anniversary as Secretary of the Interior and applauds his numerous accomplishments.

"On day one Secretary Zinke hit the ground running by lifting the last administration’s ban on traditional ammunition— and he hasn’t slowed down since. He’s expanded hunting and fishing opportunities on federal lands, forged new efforts to encourage veteran hunting and fishing, and recently announced the department’s prioritization of big game corridors to improve wildlife habitat," said Chris W. Cox, NRA- ILA executive director. "Secretary Zinke is fighting for us – America’s hunters – each and every day.” ​

Secretary Ryan Zinke was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on March 1, 2017 and sworn in the same day as the 52nd Secretary of the Interior. Since then he has taken numerous actions for hunters and shooters, including:

Ending the Obama Administration’s ban of traditional ammunition on federal lands



Expanding hunter & angler access to fish & wildlife refuges and other federal lands



Hosted a sportsmen’s access summit to gather ideas and examine problems



Issued a Secretarial Order improving access to federal lands



Reviewed national monument designations to ensure access and local input



Forged a number of new agency efforts to encourage veteran hunting & fishing programs



Created the much-needed International Wildlife Conservation Council that will advise the Department on international conservation issues



Announced the creation of the domestic Hunting & Shooting Sports Conservation Council



Prioritized big game corridor habitat improvement and management

Established in 1871, the National Rifle Association is America's oldest civil rights and sportsmen's group. More than five million members strong, NRA continues to uphold the Second Amendment and advocates enforcement of existing laws against violent offenders to reduce crime. The Association remains the nation's leader in firearm education and training for law-abiding gun owners, law enforcement and the armed services. Be sure to follow the NRA on Facebook at NRA on Facebook and Twitter @NRA.

%MCEPASTEBIN%