The executive director of the National Rifle Association’s Institute for Legislative Action, Chris W. Cox, will represent the 6 million members of the NRA on a newly formed panel that will advise the Trump administration on public land use policies on hunting and recreational shooting.

Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke created the Hunting and Shooting Sports Conservation Council to advise him and the Secretary of Agriculture on the establishment and implementation of policies regarding hunting, recreational shooting, and wildlife and habitat conservation. The Council will examine ways to benefit wildlife resources; encourage partnership among the public, the sporting conservation organizations, state, tribal, territorial, and federal government; and benefit hunting and recreational shooting sports.

“Our public lands are vital to hunters and shooters in America,” said Cox. “We have a duty to both conserve them and ensure they are open and easily accessible for the recreation and enjoyment of all Americans. I thank Secretary Zinke for his foresight and am honored to be a part of this advisory council. I look forward to robust discussions leading to policies that will ultimately benefit Americans now and for generations to come.”

The Council is strictly advisory and the duties will consist of providing recommendations for implementation of Executive Order No. 13443 (E.O.): Facilitation of Hunting Heritage and Wildlife Conservation, Secretarial Order No. 3347: Conservation Stewardship and Outdoor Recreation, and Secretarial Order No. 3356 (S.O.): Hunting, Fishing, Recreational Shooting, and Wildlife Conservation Opportunities and Coordination with States, Tribes, and Territories.

The Council will meet approximately twice a year, and at such other times as designated by the Designated Federal Officer.

Established in 1871, the National Rifle Association is America's oldest civil rights and sportsmen's group. More than five million members strong, NRA continues to uphold the Second Amendment and advocates enforcement of existing laws against violent offenders to reduce crime. The Association remains the nation's leader in firearm education and training for law-abiding gun owners, law enforcement and the armed services. Be sure to follow the NRA on Facebook at NRA on Facebook and Twitter @NRA.