The complete professional journal of the law enforcement special operations community is now available to members of the National Tactical Officers Association (NTOA).

Colorado Springs, Colo. (Ammoland.com) – The National Tactical Officers Association (NTOA) is pleased to announce the spring edition of The Tactical Edge is now available. Widely considered to be the leading authority in tactical operations information, The Tactical Edge reaches more than 40,000 law enforcement officers throughout the United States, Canada and around the world.

Members-only features include “Establishing a Structured Training Program” by Bruce Liebe and “Pre-Planning for Protest in a Post-Charlottesville World” by Don Lambert. Also featured is “Measuring Progress in Negotiations – Why it is Vital” by Andrew Brown and Mark Lowther, and “Use of Force and Mental Illness” by Eric P. Daigle, Esq. The entire issue is available online to law enforcement officers who become a member of the NTOA.

The NTOA has also made several articles available online to nonmembers, including “Lessons in Leadership: Building Bridges” by Phil Hansen. In this article, Hansen illustrates the need for collaboration between teams and underscores the responsibility leaders have to build and maintain relationships outside their own organization. Other items of interest include a book review by Michael Asken, PhD, on Lt. Daniel Modell (Ret.)’s “The Warrior’s Manifesto,” the Executive Director’s message and a profile of NTOA Command College student Lt. Jesse Laintz of Lexington County (SC) SD.

The Tactical Edge has been providing the law enforcement community with cutting edge, lifesaving information from leading experts for more than 30 years and is the winner of multiple awards, including the 2006 American In-House Design Award from Graphic Design USA and the 2013 APEX Award for Publication Excellence from Communications Concepts. It is published quarterly in February, May, August and November.

The Tactical Edge is seeking new content. If you have an area of expertise or would like to write about an incident, training technique, crisis negotiation or another topic, please contact [email protected]. Don’t be intimidated – The Tactical Edge editing team can help new writers through the article writing process. For submission guidelines, visit ntoa.org/tacticaledge/.

For more information on the National Tactical Officers Association, visit ntoa.org or call 800-279-9127. Join the NTOA today and start receiving the benefits of better training and stay on top of the ever-changing and challenging world of law enforcement.

About the National Tactical Officers Association

The mission of the NTOA is to enhance the performance and professional status of law enforcement personnel by providing a credible and proven training resource as well as a forum for the development of tactics and information exchange. The association’s ultimate goal is to improve public safety and domestic security through training, education and tactical excellence. www.ntoa.org.