Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin vetoed a a bill that would have given residents of the state constitutional carry privileges, meaning they could carry a firearm with no permit necessary.

The Senate Bill 1212, was shot down by Fallin, who stressed that she supports the Second Amendment and is a gun owners herself, but cited safety concerns as the reason for her veto, according to this story from tulsaworld.com.

“Oklahomans believe that law-abiding individuals should be able to defend themselves,” Fallin said in a statement. “I believe the firearms requirement we currently have in state law are few and reasonable. Senate Bill 1212 eliminates the training requirements for persons carrying a firearm in Oklahoma. It reduces the level of the background check necessary to carry a gun. “SB 1212 eliminates the current ability of Oklahoma law enforcement to distinguish between those carrying guns who have been trained and vetted, and those who have not.”

There are 17 states that currently have some form of constitutional carry, including Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Idaho, Kansas, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wyoming. The states of Illinois, Montana, New Mexico, and Oklahoma have forms of constitutional carry with limitations.

The governors of South Dakota and Utah have both recently vetoed constitutional carry bills when they landed on their desks.

In the Oklahoma state legislature, SB 1212, which was introduced by Sen. Nathan Dahm (R-Broken Arrow), passed the Senate by a vote of 33-9. It had earlier passed the House by a vote of 59-28.

The president of the Oklahoma Second Amendment Association (OK2A) said in a statement he was “disappointed that Oklahoma rights were not respected” and that Gov. Fallin “had a great opportunity to defend out liberty and leave a wonderful legacy and she chose not to.”

As she vetoed the constitutional carry bill, Gov. Fallin signed Senate Bill 1140, which allows private adoption agencies to refuse some child placements based on religious beliefs, and House Bill 2177, which allows the display of the Ten Commandments on public property.