Have you ever reviewed a resume where job duties and responsibilities were substituted for achievements? A hiring manager did last week and promptly separated the ones that sounded like a list of requirements. He told me within six seconds he could tell if a candidate was a potential hire by skimming over their resumes looking for contributions.

The bottom line is that responsibilities lack stories and results; they leave the reader trying to fill in the blanks with your value. Rather than leaving a hiring manager guessing, hoping they will dig for your accomplishments, take the time to spell out your skills for them. Your job is to make it easy for a manager to review your background and create a vision for your set of skills.

Long gone are the days where you listed job duties and hoped that an employer would see your value. Job responsibilities describe your duties — the obligations you must perform to complete tasks. I am sure the manager who is interested in hiring you can’t imagine anything more lackluster than repeating a job description under your title.

Resumes continue to evolve as things change in the marketplace, and a good resume structure will use a “less is more” strategy where each achievement has a purpose. Resume space and the words you choose are critical with six seconds going by fast when you are hoping for an interview.

Some candidates find that old resume habits are hard to break especially when it’s easier to list job duties rather than having to think about describing their strengths. No doubt, it can be challenging to talk about yourself without sounding like a braggart, but if you don’t talk about your achievements, who will?

Keep in mind the questions most interviewers want answered: “What sets you apart from others?” and “Why should I hire you?” both are missed when you list job responsibilities instead of your achievements.

It’s human nature to take shortcuts especially with job search tasks that seem trivial. But when you shortcut your resume by using lists instead of stories it takes away from your value and lengthens your search.

Take a few minutes and think about your skills: What would make them valuable to an employer? Once you identify your skills, make sure you are highlighting them on your resume. Everyone interested in their career can benefit from taking an inventory of their skills and identifying their value to a potential employer.

Your achievements set you apart from others while job responsibilities are the same for everyone. Listing your duties sends a message that you lack self-awareness and that’s not a good sign when your future career is at stake.

A great way to tell if your achievements need strengthening is to apply the “so what?” test to each bullet point you list on your resume. You can tell when you are merely listing responsibilities, when your “so what?” question generates a non-answer. On the contrary when you have a good achievement listed and the “so what?” test is applied, you’ll get an answer full of details that paints a picture of your contributions, value and results that an employer understands.

Career opportunities are too important to waste by writing a resume that only list duties. When you write a resume that speaks to your skills and experience it will generate the attention your career deserves.