CLOSE For half a century old-time Detroit repair shop McNichols Electric repaired broken small appliances for the community. Now the business on the brink blames its decline on free trade with China. Ryan Garza

Business at this Detroit shop thrived for years. Then came Chinese products, and its owners say things were never the same.

Buy Photo McNichols Electric co-owners Dave Kehoe (left) and his brother Pat Kehoe are seen reflected in an old General Mills toaster being repaired at their small appliance repair shop on Detroit's west side on Tuesday, March 20, 2018. The repair shop once had a dozen workers and four stores and is now down to the single location where the business was started by their father in 1953. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Every part of the broken microwave was coated with the vaporized grease of a thousand meals.

“Oh God, it’s so disgusting,” said Dave Kehoe, who, with his brother Pat, owns McNichols Electric, a small appliance repair shop on the city’s west side. He both winced and laughed at the sheer scale of grossness in the microwave, which had been dropped off by a regular customer — a popular restaurant in Detroit that, probably to most customers’ surprise, cooks many of its entrées in a filthy microwave. “I’ll never eat at that place, I tell you,” Dave said.

But the grease wasn’t the issue. A broken door was. And Dave was glad to overlook the grime for an opportunity to fix something, because those opportunities have become fewer every year.

Buy Photo McNichols Electric co-owner Pat Kehoe helps carry a mixer out for customer Elisabeth Wood-Wallace of Redford as she picks up her repair from the shop on Detroit's west side on Tuesday, March 20, 2018. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

McNichols Electric is a dinosaur on the brink. For half a century people brought their broken small appliances — their cake mixers and coffee makers, their hair dryers and two-slice toasters — to this family-owned business for repair. That was when those appliances were made of sturdier materials like steel; when they were worth repairing if they broke.

Business was so good for so long that the family opened three other stores in the metro Detroit area, while a whole room had to be added onto the main Detroit shop just to store all the appliances waiting in line to be repaired.

Then something came along that changed everything.

“Chinese-made junk,” said Pat.

Read more:

The repair shop once had a dozen workers and four stores. Now the brothers are down to a single location — the shop where it all started — and its only remaining employees are 60-year-old Pat and his 64-year-old brother Dave. They point to a trade agreement signed 17 years ago as the beginning of the end for their business.

“All these manufacturers just started laying people off and going over to China to have this stuff made," Dave said. "In my industry, that’s what really started the change.”

Soon, department stores were selling Chinese-made versions of familiar appliances, items so comparatively inexpensive that most people just threw them out and replaced them if they broke. Soon, most people fell out of the habit of fixing their broken gadgets, or found they couldn’t anymore.

“Everything that comes from China is not really designed to be repaired,” Dave said. “There are no replacement parts.”

And soon, business began to decline as McNichols Electric become collateral damage in a changing economy, a casualty in the country's manufacturing’s decline. And now an artifact of a bygone era. Although there are still many places that’ll fix large appliances such as stoves and refrigerators, small appliance repair is virtually an extinct field of work.

“I always say we’re like a shoe repair shop,” Dave said. “When was the last time you had a pair of shoes repaired? In the old days, everybody went and had their shoes repaired. You soled them once or twice because they were still good.”

He was standing in the back by his old workbench. His family’s name was carved in a slab of wood and proudly hung on the pegboard, stationed above a hundred tools used thousands of times to fix countless things.

“There are almost no shoe repair shops anymore,” he said. “They were on every corner when I was a kid. Now, people just don’t think about repairing stuff anymore. They just get on the computer, on Amazon, order it, and two days later the old one sits on the curb. It’s just the culture now.”

Good times

Their father Leon founded the shop in 1953 at age 27, on McNichols just west of Schaefer. He was so dedicated to the new business and its neighborhood that he moved his wife and three sons from Livonia to a house just across the alley behind the store, and sent his kids to nearby Precious Blood Catholic School.

Buy Photo McNichols Electric co-owner Pat Kehoe shows a photo of his father Leon Kehoe (left) awarding a woman with a washer she won from a raffle at the small appliance repair shop on Detroit's west side his father started in 1953. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

Those were big times in the small appliance industry. A postwar boom in household convenience items kept repairmen busy and successful. They even had their own trade organization, the National Appliance Service Association. Once a year, Leon would head to its annual convention, along with hundreds of other small repair shop owners from across America, where they’d gather, network and view the latest appliances showcased for them by the country’s top appliance makers. Leon’s young sons were growing up at the shop, learning by watching how things were fixed.

As his neighborhood customers migrated to the suburbs in the 1970s and ‘80s, Leon followed them with new stores in Royal Oak, then Dearborn, then Shelby Township. He had dozens of American appliance manufacturers under contract for warranty work, and constant business from walk-in customers.

“It was just phenomenal,” Pat said. “The Remington hair dryers and the Mr. Coffees, you could come in here and repair those things all day and not make a dent in the pile, ‘cause you took in as many in that day as you repaired. Toaster ovens too.”

In 2000, President Bill Clinton signed the U.S.-China Trade Relations Act, which significantly lowered tariffs on Chinese products entering the U.S. The move made it easier for American companies to open factories in China or outsource there for parts, where wages and manufacturing costs were lower.

“When Bill Clinton signed that free trade agreement, our business changed drastically over the next five years,” Dave said. “Every manufacturer we had ran to China. You just couldn’t get parts anymore. Everybody just sent everything overseas to have it made there because they could get it done cheaper.”

The brothers saw this transformation unfold in real time at their doorstep.

“A lot of times my dad would come in on Saturday and bring the crew in just to knock off repairs and get caught up,” Pat said. “All of a sudden, Saturdays died out. I could sit here for five hours on a Saturday and I might get a half a dozen people walk in, and the big spenders might walk in and buy a belt at $2 a pop to go fix their vacuum.”

In response, the family closed the extra stores one by one, cut hours and reduced staff. Leon had passed away in 1986, and left the business to his three sons. One of them, 66-year-old Don, retired a couple years ago. The old stockroom, once full of appliances waiting for service, sits empty now, sealed to keep the building’s heating bill low. The metal shelves that were in there are now offered for sale in the lobby, which itself was once a large showroom offering new appliances to shoppers, just like at a department store.

Buy Photo Shelves that were used years ago to store small appliances waiting for repair now sit for sale in the lobby of McNichols Electric on Detroit's west side on Tuesday, March 20, 2018. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

Now, the only appliances on display are antiques arranged atop a wall that separates the old showroom from the workshop; appliances made decades ago during the golden age of American manufacturing — soda fountain mixers, coffee percolators, waffle irons and classic toasters. The brothers put them there because their pastel colors and shiny components are retro and sleek. But they also serve as a museum of old-time craftsmanship.

“They don’t build stuff like that anymore,” Pat said. “Now it’s all built out of plastic. That was a change too — everything started going to lighter plastic. Sunbeam was a perfect example. They made a beautiful old mixer, and then all of a sudden the mixer was the same, but it was made all out of plastic — the metal gears became plastic gears, and it’s just cheap, cheap, cheap.”

Modern small appliances are more affordable for consumers than they used to be, the brothers admit. But they insist there was more value in those old products; more pride in both crafting them and owning them.

“That stuff was built to last forever,” Dave said, pointing at the wall-top display. “That stuff up there was just built with such quality, and there’s so much metal in it and stuff like that, they’d last forever. A lot of people go to grandma’s house, and she’s still using a toaster she’s had for 70 years, you know? And it still works fine. Stuff you buy today, if you make it to the one-year warranty, you’re doing pretty good.”

The end of an era

Though business is down from what it once was, McNichols Electric still gets a steady inflow of customers, since it’s one of the last businesses of its kind around.

On a spring afternoon there was a teacher from a barber college a couple miles away dropping off a box of hair clippers with broken cords. “A lot of people don’t know about this place,” said Maurice Reed. “I’m just glad they stayed, ‘cause the neighborhood went down. If they left, I would’ve understood.”

Buy Photo McNichols Electric co-owner Dave Kehoe works on fixing a microwave at the small appliance repair shop on Detroit's west side on Tuesday, March 20, 2018. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

There was a man buying parts for the vacuums used by the cleaning crew at work down the road. “Five years been coming down here for these belts,” said Daryl Turner, a director at the Northwest Activities Center. “

There was a neighborhood woman with a hair-straightening iron that she wanted fixed. “I’m sorry to say I cannot repair this,” Pat told her. “I can’t get the parts. None of these companies will even talk to us about selling us the parts.”

The woman took a guess why. “Are they Chinese?” she asked. But her tone indicated she already knew the answer.

These days, the shop draws business from collectors all over the country who can’t get their antique toasters fixed anywhere else, older customers who still fix their broken appliances out of habit and poorer customers who can’t afford to do otherwise. The brothers say they’ll try to repair whatever people bring to them. “Just about anything that comes in, I’ll give it a whirl,” Dave said. “Repairing is repairing.”

But the shop is living on borrowed time. Their customer base is older and shrinking. Every year, there are fewer manufacturers offering replacement components. And there are no new parts being made for old appliances, so if a customer needs a repair for some long-discontinued item the brothers will cannibalize other appliances for those parts, including the antique models on display atop the wall. They can do that only so many more times.

Buy Photo McNichols Electric co-owner Pat Kehoe waits in his shop's lobby for customers on Monday, March 19, 2018. The business, which once had four local stores, is now down to a single shop. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

“We’re getting to that point,” Dave said. “I like coming to work every day for a while, making a few bucks, but it keeps slowing down and it’s getting a little tougher to pay the bills, the taxes, building expenses. It’s real sad what’s happening around here. Very sad. But it was bound to happen someday.”

The dirty microwave with the broken door sat on the workbench. That model is still made by a major American manufacturer, but the company uses Chinese components in their appliances. A delivery driver had just dropped off a box containing the replacement parts shipped by the company.

“I’ve thought about retiring, but it’s not like we have a date set,” Dave added. “We’ll see what happens. Anything can change.”

Dave opened the box and unwrapped the packaged contents. The replacement part that the company sent him, a large rectangular door frame, turned out to be made of thin, cheap plastic. And it was already cracked in two.

McNichols Electric is located at 13729 West McNichols, Detroit. For more information, call 313-342-6070.

John Carlisle writes about people and places in Michigan. His stories can be found at freep.com/carlisle. Contact him: jcarlisle@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @_johncarlisle, Facebook at johncarlisle.freep or on Instagram at johncarlislefreep

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2GIr98Q