opel

PSA's Opel suspends staff buyouts as engineers quit for BMW, Jaguar May 11 Opel has suspended voluntary buyouts after staff representatives warned that a wave of departures following PSA's takeover could leave it short of skilled workers.



PSA first-quarter revenue jumps 42% on Opel-Vauxhall acquisition April 24 PSA revenue rose 42 percent to 18 billion euros ($22 billion) in the first quarter, lifted by its acquisition of Opel-Vauxhall last year.



PSA's Tavares faces toughest opponent yet in German union April 20 PSA boss Carlos Tavares, who is no stranger to thrashing out difficult labor deals, is now taking on Germany's powerful IG Metall union, which has been the undoing of many a cost cutter.



PSA seeks 3,700 Opel job cuts in Germany, labor chief says April 20 PSA wants 3,700 job cuts at Opel in Germany by 2020 and a process of contract buyouts and early retirement has already resulted in a reduction of about 2,000 positions, Opel's labor chief said.



PSA fight to slash Opel factory costs intensifies April 19 PSA's fight to cut production costs at Opel's German factories took on a national dimension with Chancellor Angela Merkel intervening to say she expected the French automaker to honor commitments it made when it bought Opel from GM last year.



Smaller Opel/Vauxhall dealer network will focus on performance, customer satisfaction April 17 PSA Group will focus its slimmed-down Opel/Vauxhall dealership network across Europe on sales performance and customer satisfaction.



Opel, Vauxhall to scrap dealerships as Peugeot cuts costs April 16 Opel and Vauxhall are cutting dealerships as new owner Peugeot continues to reduce costs at the automaker it acquired last year in the face of sliding sales, notably in Britain, a major market.



Opel a year later: Tavares sees 'first concrete results' March 18 "No regrets" -- That's PSA Group CEO Carlos Tavares' assessment one year after striking a $2.7 billion deal for Opel and Vauxhall, General Motors' stubbornly unprofitable European brands.



Opel will launch full-electric Corsa in 2020 Feb. 15 Opel said a full-electric version of its Corsa will launch in 2020, a year after the conventionally powered new generation of the subcompact hatchback goes on sale.



Opel denies losing $1.24 billion in 2017 Feb. 6 Author: David Jolley Opel denied a report that its loss widened to more than 1 billion euros ($1.24 billion) last year.



PSA to tap GM expertise in return to U.S. Jan. 18 Author: Katie Burke France's PSA Group has found a bonus benefit in engineers from its newly acquired Opel unit. The former GM employees are helping make PSA products compliant with United States regulations,

