1:09 Paris Jackson refused to sit by and watch Dior's horse show It’s no moonwalk, but Paris Jackson’s epic walkout at a French fashion show has people talking. The 20-year-old left the Dior show early because she reportedly was offended by the treatment of animals at the fashion house's Mexican rodeo-themed show.

3:39 MeToo charges starting to haunt Morgan Freeman Morgan Freeman is experiencing fallout after eight women accused the Hollywood star of sexual misconduct. “I apologize to anyone who felt uncomfortable or disrespected — that was never my intent,” Freeman wrote in a statement to The Post.

0:56 Brad Pitt threw Harvey Weinstein against a wall Brad Pitt came to Gwyneth Paltrow’s defense back in 1996. After Harvey Weinstein allegedly made a pass at the “Emma” actress, Pitt threw Weinstein against a wall. “If you ever make her feel uncomfortable again, I’ll kill you,” Pitt reportedly said to the now-disgraced media mogul.

3:23 Kim Petras is the first transgender pop star Kim Petras could be the next Britney Spears. This is the 25-year-old trans singer’s journey to pop stardom. Her music video for “I Don’t Want It All” has nearly two million views on YouTube.

1:42 HSN exec called out for sending 'disrespectful' email A scandal has hit QVC and the Home Shopping Network. After the two TV giants merged, HSN’s on-air training manager, Gordie Daniels, sent an email to the entire staff that many found disrespectful. HSN is home to Mariah Carey, while QVC boasts Ellen DeGeneres as one of its star hosts.

1:54 Sonja Morgan’s equal-opportunity humpfest on the dance floor What some people call “humping,” Sonja Morgan calls grinding and dancing. While the “RHONY” star had a wild night on the town in New York, dancing dirty with both men and women, she told Page Six that the reports were greatly “exaggerated.”

1:55 Amber Heard is dating Heidi Klum’s ex Johnny Depp and Elon Musk are long gone. Amber Heard has a new beau in her life, art dealer Vito Schnabel. The two were spotted “locking lips” over breakfast at West Village hot spot Sant Ambroeus.

1:08 'He was so hot’: Countess Luann confirms fling with Keith Hernandez Long before she married the Count, Luann de Lesseps dated Mets legend Keith Hernandez. While he told Andy Cohen that the two “hooked up,” the Countess says it was more like dating. “He was so hot, I had such a crush on him,” she dished to "Page Six TV."

1:11 Dorinda Medley defends herself against drinking accusations “It happens,” Dorinda Medley said about her boozy trip to Miami. The “Real Housewives of New York” star was accused of drinking too much by two of her fellow cast mates.