By StoryStudio

Planning vacations was supposed to get easier in the digital age. Instead we often find ourselves overwhelmed with information, some of it even contradictory. The Pismo Beach Classic California VisitWidget app removes the head scratching, whether you’re plotting a weekend destination wedding, a romantic getaway, or itineraries like family reunions or buddy/girlfriend trips around Pismo Beach. Step into the VisitWidget, dig your toes into the sand, and start tapping away. My Pismo Beach asks guests for their best memories of Pismo Beach at #MyPismoBeach.

The VisitWidget provides an easy-to-read interface where you can choose what’s going to go on your map. You just scroll over the familiar symbol and voila!—you have the information you need, pronto.

Pismo Beach has always drawn outdoor recreation enthusiasts to surf off the pier break, hike and bike spectacular trails, or play one of several Instagram-worthy golf tracks. From skydiving to cantering down the beach on a local steed, the Pismo Beach VisitWidget gives you all the adventure intel and then tells you how to get there. Need a dune buggy, ATV, or scooter for your outing? Just click on the rentals button and go grab your fun.

The VisitWidget app keeps you up to date on what’s happening this evening or next month. Pismo Beach serves as festival hub for the Central Coast, so don’t miss out on Wine, Waves & Beyond, an weekend (May 4th-6th) devoted to area winemakers and brew masters who pair their craft with the best chefs in the region, all of you to enjoy from several of the most picturesque points on the coast.

Plan your trip! Map your route here. Download the app!

The 32nd Annual Classic Car Show rolls into town on June 1st, the monarch butterflies begin arriving in November. In between you can test your longboard skills and hit the vintage trailer rally as well as attend the monthly Art in the Park @ Dinosaur Caves.

The best apps do more than simply help us decide where to go and what to do, they invite us to join the conversation. #MyPismoBeach allows us to share perfect sunsets and our favorite seaside patio with future visitors. Speaking of My Pismo Beach, when you sign up for the newsletter you not only receive the inside scoop, you qualify for the annual Pismo Beach Getaway Contest. Talk about a sharing economy! For all the information you may ever need about a Pismo Beach getaway, go to the website, classiccalifornia.com. There you can book your stay at an oceanfront resort, affordable motel or check out family friendly vacation rentals and RV resorts.