BravoBravo! returns to the Opera House on Friday after a two-year hiatus. (Photo: Michigan Opera Theatre)

BRAVOBRAVO!, the swanky black-tie fund-raiser for the Detroit Opera House, is back in 2018 after a two-year hiatus. As usual, the affair will include three floors of music, dancing, food and drink from top local bars, restaurants and performers, but organizers also have something new in store this year. To tie the event more closely to the Opera House, they’re making props and sets from Michigan Opera Theatre productions part of the décor. That means, for example, a dessert room with a “Hansel and Gretel” theme and a sangria station inspired by “Carmen.” The entertainment lineup includes opera-soul singer Kisma Jordan and electro-pop violin band Nuclassica, which will perform with contemporary dancers choreographed by Liz Schmidt. DJ Godfather is host for the afterparty on the rooftop 350 Terrace.

8 p.m.-12:30 a.m. Friday, Detroit Opera House. 313-237-7464. michiganopera.org. $160, $250 VIP.

Eager to avoid sometimes-chilly May weather, organizers of the PALMER PARK ART FAIR have moved the event to the first weekend in June. The juried fair, revived in 2013 after an absence of nearly 30 years, attracts national, regional and local artists who offer both functional and decorative works of art priced from $20 to $2,500 and more. New this year will be a tent featuring the work of members of the Detroit Fine Arts Breakfast Club, a group of emerging artists who have never been part of a juried event. The Detroit Institute of Arts is bringing its DIA Away trailer to the event. Other hands-on activities will be offered by Arts & Scraps, Art in Motion and the Mint Artists Guild, which is made up of Detroit-area teens.

10 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday, 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Sunday, area around the log cabin in Palmer Park, just off Merrill Plaissance, Detroit. palmerparkartfair.com. Free.

The Palmer Park Art Fair has been moved from May to June this year. (Photo: Palmer Park Art Fair)

The current tour of Broadway’s “MOTOWN: THE MUSICAL” is winding down, but not before making one last stop in the city that inspired it. The set-in-Detroit jukebox musical about Berry Gordy Jr. and the rise of his Motown record label returns to the Fisher on Tuesday for a quick eight-performance engagement. Helping to bring the hit-packed score to life this time out are a couple of Michiganders: Detroiter Arielle Crosby (who plays Martha Reeves) and Flint native Matt Manuel (Marvin Gaye). They were cast during open auditions in April 2017 at the Motown Museum. Detroit native Ayla Stackhouse, also part of the production, was cast during auditions in New York.

Opens at 8 p.m. Tuesday and continues through June 10, Fisher Theatre, Detroit. 313-872-1000. broadwayindetroit.com. $45 and up.

Hits of the Temptations are part of the “Motown the Musical” score. The show's current tour is nearing its end. (Photo: Joan Marcus)

A treat awaits Saturday for city and suburban youngsters who can be coaxed away from their cell phones and video games for a couple of hours. Northville’s Maybury Farm is holding its annual FARM FEST, which features kid activities, baby animals, farming demonstrations and a glimpse of a time and way of life that are becoming increasingly distant. Demonstrations of sheep shearing, wool spinning and blacksmithing will be offered, along with wagon rides through Maybury’s fields and forests. Also in the mix: a chance to plant a container garden or make a beeswax candle and demonstrations involving beekeeping, milking goats and raising chickens. Also part of the fun: live music and food, including Naughty Boy’s Rolled Ice Cream.

10 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday, Maybury Farm, Northville. 248-916-3033. mayburyfarm.org. $5, free to ages 2 and younger.

Children can get acquainted with baby animals at Farm Fest at Maybury Farm. (Photo: Northville Community Foundation, Northville Community Foundation)

ART ON THE GRAND, historic downtown Farmington’s annual celebration of art, returns to Grand River Avenue this weekend with the work of 100-plus artists and craftsmen from across the U.S. The two-day juried affair offers work in a variety of price ranges and categories, including painting, pottery, photography, glass and leather. (You can view a sampling of each artist’s work at artonthegrand.com.) Returning to the fair this year is the Kids Art Alley, featuring 40 artists in grades 3-12 who will be on hand to talk about and sell their work.

10 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday, 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Sunday, downtown Farmington. Free.

FERNDALE PRIDE, the annual street fair that celebrates the LGBTQAI community, is continuing to expand in its eighth year. The festival’s footprint now includes parts of Planavon and Allen streets as well as West 9 Mile, and the number of vendors now exceeds 150 (nearly a 40% increase). Though the street fair and its two stages featuring live music are the event’s centerpiece, there are related happenings throughout the day Saturday, starting with the 5K Rainbow Run at 10 a.m. and continuing with a wedding ceremony as 12:30 p.m. and a youth prom at the Affirmations community center at 6 p.m. A children’s area will include a rock-climbing wall and a create-a-mask activity. The weekend will conclude with a drag brunch Sunday at Rosie O’Grady’s with shows starting at 1 and 3 p.m.

All day Saturday along West 9 Mile in Ferndale (the street fair runs 1-10 p.m.). ferndalepride.com.

Two stages offering live music along West 9 Mile are part of Ferndale Pride. (Photo: John Froelich, Special to the Detroit Free Press)

You can enjoy an afternoon and evening of craft beer, food and live music Saturday during the third annual BARK & BREW, a fund-raiser for Leader Dogs for the Blind. The event at the new Griffin Claw Brewing Company and Clubhouse BFD in Rochester Hills is also kid-friendly and includes inflatables, carnival games and face painting. Kids and adults alike will enjoy the opportunities to meet and greet leader dogs, which are provided free to people who need them. The event’s music lineup includes Sexy Monster, Single Shot Steve and B-Side.

1-10 p.m. Saturday, Griffin Claw Brewing Company, Rochester Hills. leaderdog.org/bark-and-brew. $10, $8 advance, free to ages 20 and younger, $5 for kids play area.

Steven Simoncic’s “GHOST GARDENS,” a sweet and funny story set in a forgotten part of Detroit, gets its world premiere Thursday at Detroit Repertory Theatre. Simoncic, who grew up in Detroit and who has addressed his hometown in previous works, explores issues related to race, socioeconomics and the environment in his new play, which involves a pimp-turned-preacher who’s looking for redemption, a stripper-turned-nurse who’s looking for justice and a central character named Laurie who is longing for a baby. Lynch Travis directs a cast that includes Rep vets Leah Smith, Cornell Markham, Jenaya Jones Reynolds and Will Bryson as well as a couple of newcomers: Linda Rabin Hammell and Aral Gribble. Simoncic will be in the house for champagne reception after Thursday’s performance.

Opens at 8:30 p.m. Thursday and continues through July 1, Detroit Repertory Theatre, Detroit. 313-868-1347. detroitreptheatre.com. $20.

— Greg Crawford, Detroit Free Press



Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IXPEMs