Jonathan Larroquette, left, and Seth Romatelli of the "Uhh Yeah Dude" podcast. (Photo: Heather Culp)

Bacteria in bathrooms, pornography, eHarmony for pets, the Shake Shack veggie burger. That’s a mere sampling of the vast array of topics addressed in recent weeks on the free-ranging comedy podcast “UHH YEAH DUDE,” which offers a look at “America through the eyes of two American-Americans” and which will be originating live Saturday from the Magic Bag. Created in 2006 by friends Seth Romatelli, 44, and Jonathan Larroquette, 40, the offbeat show covers topics ranging from pop culture to weird news items to the hosts’ personal experiences and problems (but rarely current events and politics). The podcast, which has a mellow bro vibe, is usually recorded in Romatelli’s apartment in East Hollywood. Previous live shows have been done in L.A. and Boston as well as hipster hot spots Seattle, Brooklyn and Portland, Oregon.

8 p.m. Saturday, the Magic Bag, Ferndale. 248-544-3030. themagicbag.com. $28.

Originally known as Decoration Day, Memorial Day began in the 1860s as a day to honor the estimated 750,000 Americans from both sides of the Mason-Dixon line who died in the Civil War. Greenfield Village is paying tribute to the conflict this weekend during its annual CIVIL WAR REMEMBRANCE. Re-enactors portraying Union and Confederate soldiers, civilians and musicians will be on hand to re-create the era. New this year, historian and living history specialist Cheyney McKnight will explore the lives of black Americans, both free and enslaved, in the mid-19th Century. Musical groups including the Picks & Sticks Stringband and North Star Gospel Chorale will bring the era to life via song, and early American banjo music will be featured during a Saturday-night performance by Tin Cremona and Friends. Veterans and active-duty military men and women will be saluted at a ceremony at noon Monday, and a moment of silence will be observed at 3 p.m.

9:30 a.m.-5 p.m. daily (open until 9 p.m. Saturday), Greenfield Village at the Henry Ford, Dearborn. 313-982-6001. thehenryford.org. $28, $25.50 ages 62 and up, $21 ages 5-12, free to members and children 4 and younger.

Buy Photo Re-enactors portraying Union and Confederate troops will be part of the Civil War Remembrance at Greenfield Village. (Photo: Jessica J. Trevino, Detroit Free Press)

MARIA BAMFORD, due Friday in Royal Oak, comes across onstage as a world-weary woman on the edge. During her stand-up shows, the comic and actress, 47, draws heavily on material about her dysfunctional family and delivers a wealth of self-deprecating humor about her struggles with anxiety and depression. (Bamford says she has been diagnosed with bipolar II disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder.) She has done film and TV work (“Arrested Development,” “Louie”) since the early 2000s and played a version of herself for the two seasons on Netflix’s “Lady Dynamite,” a series about an actress-comic who’s attempting to rebuild her life after a mental-health breakdown. Bamford has earned critical kudos for her work, though the dark nature of much of her humor has occasionally stirred controversy.

7 p.m. Friday, Royal Oak Music Theatre. 248-399-2980. royaloakmusictheatre.com. $29.50-$35.

Maria Bamford, right, with Ana Gasteyer in the Netflix series "Lady Dynamite," which was based on Bamford's life. (Photo: Saeed Adyani/Netflix)

Affable YouTube personality JACKSEPTICEYE (given name: Sean William McLoughlin) brings his How Did We Get Here? Tour to the Fillmore Detroit on Tuesday. Who's that, you ask, and what's with the name? Well, as most 13-year-olds can tell you, Jacksepticeye (you can just call him Jack) is a 28-year-old Irish gamer who has won fast fame on YouTube for a series of Let’s Play videos in which he navigates his way through popular video games, offering his opinions and “lots of swearing” along the way. Jack gets genuinely geeked about his craft, and it’s hard not to chuckle at his amusing commentary or get caught up in his enthusiasm. His YouTube numbers speak for themselves: His channel has 19 million subscribers and, as of April, it has had more than 9.2 billion views.

8 p.m. Tuesday, the Fillmore Detroit. 313-961-5450. livenation.com. $25 and up.

If you’re staying in town this Memorial Day weekend (not a bad idea with gasoline priced at or near $3 a gallon), there’s affordable fun to be had at the annual ST. MARY'S POLISH COUNTRY FAIR. The four-day fund-raiser for St. Mary's Preparatory Catholic High School in Orchard Lake includes a midway with 45-plus carnival rides; a shopping area with vendors selling pottery, jewelry and more, and food ranging from stuffed cabbage and kielbasa to corn dogs and burgers. Grown-ups can enjoy raffles, bingo, a sports tent featuring local sports personalities and a Vegas Tent offering blackjack, casino games and more. (It’s open until 1 a.m. Friday-Sunday). The live music lineup includes the Polish Muslims, Mega 80’s, Your Generation and Big Daddy Lackowski & the La-Dee-Das.

5-11 p.m. Friday, 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Saturday-Sunday, 11 a.m.-6 p.m. Monday, Orchard Lake St. Mary's campus, Orchard Lake. 248-706-6775. stmaryspolishcountryfair.com. $5, $15 for families of up to six, free to children 3 and under. Ride tickets are sold separately. Free parking.

A midway with carnival rides and a tent with Vegas-style games are two of the big attractions at the St. Mary's Polish Country Fair. (Photo: Christopher M. Bjornberg, Special to the Detroit Free Press)

The 1960s and early ‘70s weren’t entirely about Woodstock, weed and protest. While one part of the culture was dropping out and turning on to Janis, Jimi and Jefferson Airplane, another was humming happily along to the Burt Bacharach songbook. Tunes by the prolific songwriter, frequent lyricist Hal David and frequent collaborator Dionne Warwick dominated the pop charts during the Vietnam years, and they’re being introduced to a new generation via “BURT & ME,” the jukebox musical opening May 30 at Meadow Brook Theatre. The show’s paper-thin plot involves a reunion of high school sweethearts who have drifted apart over the years, but it’s mostly overtaken by the timeless tunes (“Close to You,” “The Look of Love,” “I Say a Little Prayer”) that defined the sunnier side of an often-stormy decade.

Opens at 8 p.m. May 30 and continues through June 24, Meadow Brook Theatre, Auburn Hills. 248-377-3300. mbtheatre.com. $28-$43.

Darilyn Castillo, left, Jason Williams, Allison Hunt-Kaufmann and Tim Dolan in Meadow Brook Theatre's "Burt & Me" (Photo: Sean Carter)

Ninety-five juried artists from all over the U.S. will be setting up shop this weekend along the lake at Kensington Metropark for the second edition of the KENSINGTON METROPARK ART FAIR. Visitors will find everything from paintings, prints and pottery to wearable art and jewelry at the three-day affair. The weekend will also feature live musical entertainment and, with the help of the Detroit Institute of Arts and others, hands-on art projects. Food trucks (including Bearclaw Coffee, Fire & Rice Paella, the Smoke n’ Pig BBQ) will be serving up chow each day.

10 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday-Sunday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday, Kensington Metropark, Milford. kensingtonartfair.com. Free admission but a Metropark pass is required.

Jewish Ensemble Theatre is closing out 2017-18, its final season in longtime home the Aaron DeRoy Theatre, with the latest play from Harvey Fierstein (“Torch Song Trilogy”). “CASA VALENTINA” is set in the early 1960s at a small hotel in the Catskills that’s a refuge for heterosexual men who enjoy dressing and acting like women. Reviews of the play were lukewarm at best when it opened on Broadway in April 2014, and theatergoers kept their distance. “Casa Valentina” closed in late June of that year after 79 performances and 24 previews. It had a short run in London in the fall of 2015.

Opens at 7:30 p.m. Thursday and continues through June 17, Aaron DeRoy Theatre, Jewish Community Center of Metro Detroit, West Bloomfield. 248-788-2900. jettheatre.org. $44.

— Greg Crawford, Detroit Free Press

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2s4xMYY