porsche

M-B skips the cost of EV charging network May 28 Author: Urvaksh Karkaria Being a latecomer to the electric vehicle market has its advantage.



VW CEO counts on diplomacy to ease trade spat with U.S. May 25 Volkswagen CEO Herbert Diess is hopeful that diplomacy can help defuse trade tensions with the United States, which is exploring putting tariffs on auto imports.



The power behind the throne at Volkswagen May 21 Wolfgang Porsche, chairman of the supervisory board of Porsche and head of the family that controls Volkswagen Group, touches on topics such as electrification, bureaucratic overregulation and his relationship -- or lack thereof -- with his famous cousin.



Russia ties stall Wolf's entry on to Porsche board May 15 Author: Christiaan Hetzner The United States' economic sanctions imposed on Russia will postpone former Magna International boss Siegfried Wolf from joining Porsche SE's supervisory board. Wolf cited risks related to his role as chairman of Russian van maker and contract manufacturer GAZ.



'The two extremes' of Porsche May 13 Author: Amy Wilson Thousands of Porsche enthusiasts gathering in California this fall give the automaker the perfect chance to sell the brand's most loyal consumers on its new EV offerings.



Porsche's Cayenne hybrid gets more power, longer range May 7 Author: Urvaksh Karkaria Porsche plans a faster, more powerful version of the Cayenne E-Hybrid SUV for 2019.



Porsche's head of powertrain development arrested April 20 German police arrested the head of powertrain development at Porsche in connection with parent Volkswagen Group's sweeping diesel emissions violations.



AutoNews Now: 54 years of Mustang mania April 20 54 years of Mustang mania; As buyers go big, auto loans go long; Wells Fargo fined $1B; Porsche exec arrested; No deal at GM Korea; Job cuts at Nissan, Opel?



German prosecutors probe Porsche board member over emissions April 18 German prosecutors are investigating current and former employees of Porsche, including a management board member, as part of their inquiries into emissions manipulations.



Porsche plans network of 500 fast chargers for U.S. April 16 Author: Amy Wilson With multiple electric vehicles coming, buyers need a strong charging network to alleviate range anxiety, the brand's U.S. boss says.



Porsche reassures dealers: You will be involved in subscriptions April 2 Author: Laurence Iliff Porsche isn't bypassing dealers with its subscription pilot program, Porsche Passport, but is simply trying to figure out how to make the model work before getting retailers more involved in a fluid process, the company told dealers.

