Buy Photo Post Malone performs during his North American tour at Michigan Lottery Amphitheatre at Freedom Hill in Sterling Heights, Tuesday, May 29, 2018. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

You’re not alone if you’ve puzzled over the sudden dominance of Post Malone, the 22-year-old Texan with the burnout persona who’s ruling the pop charts while racking up record-breaking streaming numbers.

But the demand for his melodic, moody, trap-flavored music was on full display Tuesday night, as Malone connected with a young, locked-in crowd of 7,200 that packed Michigan Lottery Amphitheatre at Freedom Hill.

Working the stage alone, over the narcotic haze of backing tracks that often doubled his live vocals, the affable Malone applied his sing-songy lines to lyrical depictions of hedonism, gold-trimmed hip-hop decadence and personal setbacks.

Sterling Heights was the latest stop on Post Malone’s tour in support of the sophomore album “Beerbongs & Bentleys.” The album sits at No. 1 a month after notching 431 million opening-week streams to topple a record set last year by fellow singer-rapper Drake, and Malone's momentum has pushed his 2016 release, "Stoney," back into the Top 20.

The unlikely star with the man bun, beard and beer gut took the stage to a sea of cellphones and the aroma of weed wafting across the venue. Addressing the audience early on, Malone laid out the night’s agenda: He’d be performing songs from both albums — “and getting drunk while we do it.”

Read more:

The wide eyes across the amphitheater Tuesday night made it clear this was a coming-of-age concert for many of the teens on hand — a heavily suburban crowd getting its first taste of live-music edginess, courtesy of a likeable figure who concluded nearly every song with a hospitable Southern refrain: “Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen.”

Chatty throughout the 75-minute set, Malone introduced songs that were variously about: “getting drunk” (“Takin’ Shots”), “having a cool watch” (“Psycho”), “a stupid b---- that broke my heart (“I Fall Apart”) and “smoking to get away from your everyday problems” (“Up There”).

“Feel free to light up,” Malone told the crowd while reminding them that he no longer partakes. “I won’t tell.”

Malone distills pop formulas down to their basic essence; he’s got a knack for latching onto a melodic bit and driving it home like a repeating gif. The lyrical drama ran deep and shallow at the same time, making a heartbreak song like “I Fall Apart” sound like Dashboard Confessional turned into nu-metal power balladry.

Born in 1995, Post Malone is a star made for — and made by — Internet culture. He emphasized that point ahead of “Paranoid,” seeking sympathy with his young fans. “I know everybody goes through this nowadays: Everybody is watching everything you do, everything you say.”

The show was honest in its own way: There were no real production frills or showmanship, just a guy manning the stage in his yellow tour T-shirt while clutching a 24-ounce Bud Light and the occasional cigarette.

“I’m too thick to be doing this,” Malone said in one of several self-deprecating moments, wiping his sweat down with a towel that he tossed to outstretched hands down front.

Onstage, his voice took on a growl that contrasted with the smooth studio delivery of tracks like “Better Now,” “Candy Paint” and “Go Flex.” He abruptly stopped during the second verse of “Psycho” to restart the song (“I f----d up the words”), and sat with a guitar on an acoustic stretch that included “Feeling Whitney” and “Stay.”

The biggest hits were saved for the end, a closing trio of “Rockstar,” “White Iverson” and “Congratulations.” The last song was introduced with a tale about those who doubted him during his struggling years but now flatter him with appreciation. Post Malone’s glee was unmistakable: Who’s winning now, suckers?

Buy Photo Post Malone performs during his North American tour at Michigan Lottery Amphitheatre at Freedom Hill in Sterling Heights, Tuesday, May 29, 2018. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)

Contact Detroit Free Press music writer Brian McCollum: 313-223-4450 or bmccollum@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2J296ro