By StoryStudio

We all travel with individual agendas, yet everyone shares the desire to attend one specific event: a sunset. It doesn’t matter if travel’s your gateway to speed-walking volcanoes or an opportunity to talk to nobody but beach attendants, we all seek the green flash like a Hawaiian honeycreeper seeks, well, honey. And you never know, after sharing a sunset moment at Kaanapali, that beach gal or guy may grab a pair of cross-trainers and that trekker may just unfurl a blanket on the soft sand. Sunsets are like that. Whatever your picture of a Maui vacation looks like, chances are you’ll snap it up in Kaanapali.

Sharing the Greatest Grin in the Ocean

If there’s a more indelible grin than the smirk of the sea turtle, biologists have yet to discover it. Fortunately for us, affordable underwater recyclable cameras, as well as novel waterproof cell-phone housing, means we can stack up the pixels just as well as the pros can, though it’s still best to post, snap, and gram when above the underwater world. Grab some flippers and snorkels from the surf shop and flip flop across Kaanapali Beach. You’ll quickly locate smiling sea turtles, vibrant sea stars, and hundreds of other marine characters just waiting to strike a pose. While you’re at it, don’t forget to grab some underwater shots of the kids in the pool. They’ll sprout sea turtle smirks in no time.

Screen Saver Envy

There are so many “insta-worthy” moments splashing ashore in Kaanapali, but don’t forget to store some of your favorite shots for your trusted and true screensaver. Think of it: every time you idle for a minute or two, likely reminiscing about a little pool time, up pops an image that will cover well more than a measly thousand words and likely have you tapping away at your preferred travel search engine. But back to the present… head out early one morning and capture the yawning three-mile long Kaanapali Beach, a sure way to remind you later that all paths really do lead to Maui.

Golden Rays So Bright You Need Glasses

The perfect shot is as individual as whether you’re a pool person or beach dweller. One image that never gets old? Palm trees silhouetted through a glass of golden chardonnay or bubbly. Head to iced-beverage icons like the Inu Pool Bar, Barefoot Bar, or Tiki Bar & Grill to stir it up. Call it the Kaanapali sunglobe, quintessential subtropical flora captured through, not under, chilled glass. Of course there are plenty of other portrait-worthy subjects to be found—sand, a lover’s smile, a windsurfing sail, or all those umbrella-adorned cocktails. Like the best photo albums, these are tasty and tasteful vessels beckoning to be filled, and refilled.

Black Drop in the Sun

Palms do make perfect silhouettes, but creating a series of backlit subjects will keep followers and friends awaiting your every snap. Masts cast a fantastic set of lines offset by the disappearing sun. Evening jumps off Black Rock into the warm Pacific is worthy of enlargement and suitable for framing over the mantelpiece. Couples strolling the beach, seabirds in flight, and garden flowers all set up serenely before the setting sun.

When to Wedge in a Photo or Two

The perfect shot deserves the perfect shot. Whether you hit your gap wedge within three feet of the flag on the tight Par 3 second hole or prefer to stamp your own signature in print on the par 5 fifth—a stunning dogleg left that flirts with the actual beach from approach shot in—keep your lens and club covers off when playing the Kaanapali Royal or Kai golf courses.

Quick, Snap, Repeat

The astounding abundance of megapixels has made mobile-phone images as clear and colorful as those of digital SLR cameras. But sharpness and color are only two parts of the mobile photo revolution. Filters, cherished accessories of the pro shooter, now come in all variations for mobile phone cameras as well. Pick up a polarizer to take the glare away, bring out the clouds, or see beneath the sea. Grab a wide-angle adapter and suddenly you can capture more beach, boat, or whale. From catching a crisp humpback breach to capturing a porpoise above and below the surface at the same time, there’s pretty much nothing you can’t shoot to match the pros.

Lights, Culture, Action!

Video has never served a more supreme purpose than during the fire dance at the Royal Lahaina Resort Luau, Drums of the Pacific Luau, Wailele Polynesian Luau and Maui Nui Luau. How else to explain the razzle-dazzle or offer a wee ‘wish you were here’ to landlubbers back home. And now that our cameras and phones feature crazy low light clarity the possibilities of capturing night time cultural spectacles like Legends of Kaanapali Luau, ocean sunsets and Haleakala sunrises has never been equaled. Whether launching social media this instant or sharing at home with friends and family, video goes a long way to illustrate the magic of Pacific Island culture and cinematic landscapes.

The Sun Always Sets

Even with sunsets it takes something special to differentiate a destination in paradise, which is why we often look to the experts for their holiday perspectives. No less an authority than Travel+Leisure identified the Kaanapali Sunset Sail among its “Best Sunset Views on Maui.” The catamaran glides over the Pacific waters, the sun jigs on the waves as twilight’s glow bathes the shore. Sometimes a rainbow emerges after a light evening shower or the moon emerges behind, then above, Haleakala. With all this beauty, you can’t help but say “Shoot!”