CLOSE Meghan Markle is wearing a dress by designer Clare Waight Keller for her wedding to Prince Harry. (May 19) AP

Meghan Markle listens during her wedding ceremony. (Photo: AP)

It all started last Saturday morning at 7 a.m. when I posted this on Facebook: “Meghan Markle is dressed like a handmaiden. Now you're all caught up.”

The debate has spewed lava every day since, with most people attacking my inability to embrace the princess’s obvious elegance. (I want to pause here to thank the three-ish people who weakly rose to my defense with posts like, “Yes, I wish she had worn more sparkle.”)

Damn skippy, Markle should have had more sparkle. The Royal Family has been controlling global destiny for three kabillion years. And, with the exception of Queen Charlotte who married King George III in 1761, none have been of African descent. If we are going to finally have a black princess (especially one who went full Wakanda during the ceremony, shocking the royals with a call-and-response sermon and a gospel choir), then I didn’t want her to be just a princess. She needed to be a prancess.

I was married in 1984, three years after Lady Diana rode her chariot from St. Paul’s Cathedral to her place in Buckingham Palace. She, too, had a lot to prove as a commoner and a kid, and prove it she did. Her wedding ceremony followed all 1,000 strictures of formality without a glitch. And she topped it off with a gown fit for a queen. By God, if you questioned whether she was good enough for the Royal Family before that July morning, you lost all doubt the minute you saw her billow out of that glass coach bedecked in all of the satin, lace and diamonds in the kingdom.

El Príncipe Harry, el Duque de Sussex y Meghan Markle, Duquesa de Sussex dejan la Capilla de San Jorge, el Castillo de Windsor después de la ceremonia de su boda el 19 de mayo de 2018 en Windsor, Inglaterra. (Photo: WPA Pool, Getty Images)

Rochelle Riley: Royal wedding gets a little Black Girl Magic and a true black sermon

More: Here are Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's new royal titles, and why she's not a princess

I couldn’t wait to see my black highness top that moment, or at least to overshadow the princess du jour, Fertile Kate. There’s no question that Meghan was walking a tightrope. Her father’s side of the family is only slightly less fraught than Honey Boo Boo’s. Her mother is elegant, but also be-locked. And, what’s worse, Meghan is American, for God sakes. By all measures, this wedding was a set-up for a television disaster.

Which is why so much was riding on Meghan’s gown. Early that morning, I switched channels from a 24-hour news outlet to E! where I knew I’d get gossip along with the giddiness. Overall, the E! commentators were on their best behavior (dear Lordt, how I miss Joan!), and were only a little catty when Fergie lingered too long in the premium seat section. Mostly, they were just like I was — waiting on the edge of their seats to see who Meghan would be wearing.

It didn’t bode well when the Rolls Royce whisked Meghan from the Cliveden House Hotel to Windsor Castle and we got the first glimpse of her head and shoulders. Folks had been betting about whether her hair would be up or down, when there was never any question that she’d sport an up-do. But the bateau neckline on that gown was immediately worrisome.

More: Royal wedding 2018: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are officially married

More: 'Beautiful' or 'boring'? Meghan Markle's Givenchy wedding dress divides social media

The E! commentators tamped down the chatter, still hoping for the best. I think I heard one of them squeal as the chauffeur opened the sedan door. The last time I heard a squeal like that was Christmas 1971 right before I found out that Santa didn’t leave a Barbie Dream House beneath the tree. Out glided Meghan Markle, the Duchess of Sussex-to-be, in a white gown straight from "The Handmaid’s Tale." There was a collective gasp — or was it a choke? — and the E! commentary simply died. Crickets.

Now, I don’t waste my time binging on "Say Yes to the Dress" for nothing. I didn’t expect my black prancess to be a corset-laced, sexy bride wearing an alarming Pnina Tornai, but come on, chile! Like, not even one bead? Not a demure, twinkling waistband to compliment that incredible tiara? Not to be too randy (Randy as in the host of SYTTD, not the adjective) but, madame, I’ve seen that silhouette a million times—and done a million times better.

But here’s the thing. Although I was willing to call a disappointment a disappointment (unlike most of you lily-livered fashion lemmings), I was not ready to abandon my American duchess. It wasn’t long before I had to concede that pretty is as pretty does.

As the ceremony wore on, Meghan’s elegance radiated, her compassion permeated the cathedral and her love for her prince won the day. She could have been wearing a paper bag (which she nearly was) and it wouldn’t have mattered an iota. That girl was just plain stunning.

But the War of the Frock was on. Even as Bishop Michael Curry preached about peace and love like he was at home, my Facebook page was in full-out combat. When I called Meghan’s dress “off-the-rack” (and I meant it), some people evidently thought that was a stitch too far. They schooled me about classic Givenchy, invoked their mothers’ gowns from the 1950’s and resurrected the Ghost of Audrey Hepburn. One woman even said, "It was so simple and classic. It’s like something I would wear."

Exactly. My prancess should not be looking like you on her wedding day. (A five-minute internet search yielded her exact gown available to any and everybody who could fork over $1,000. That, my friends, is not royal, and it’s not haute couture. I’m just saying.) In the days since, the squabble has hardly quieted. Thanks to the Facebook algorithm, my posts are offending new people every day. Sick of it all, one person posted, "What's with y'all and the dress? Cisgendered old white guy doesn't get all the fuss."

And then I realized exactly what was going on. We were fighting again like in the good old days, and it felt good. The opinions were not along racial lines, or gender or class. No one called me names and I didn’t besmirch anyone else. I didn’t unfriend a soul (it will be awhile before I figure out if anyone has unfriended me). Not one relative has been excommunicated from my forthcoming Memorial Day festivities. I truly believe that I could meet one of you Defenders of Poor Taste at the park or in the grocery store or at the mall and actually be able to strike up a friendship.

Some of you wanted a princess, some of us wanted a prancess. We disagreed and nobody got hurt. It’s been great, America, to remember what that was like.

Desiree Cooper is a freelance writer and author of Know the Mother (Wayne State University Press 2016).

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IA92Tx