The global M&A spurt is paying off handsomely for Pret A Manger employees.

When JAB Holdings, the acquisition-hungry conglomerate controlled by Germany’s billionaire Reimann family, agreed Tuesday to buy the UK-based sandwich shop for about $2 billion, including debt, Pret’s management said each employee will get a bonus worth about $1,300.

“We’ll be thanking the people who really matter by giving each of our 12,000 employees 1,000 [pounds] when the deal completes,” tweeted Pret Chief Executive Clive Schlee.

And anyone working for Pret during the week this summer when the deal is expected to close — even if employed for only a day — will get the bonus.

As for JAB, the deal is yet another sign of the intense, can-you-top-this rivalry with a second European leviathan, Nestle, over grabbing a dominant role in the $100 billion global coffee business.

Earlier in May, Nestle, the world’s largest food and beverage company — which owns Nescafé, Nespresso and Coffee-mate — inked a $7.15 billion deal to distribute Starbucks packaged coffee around the world.

JAB, which has acquired about 20 coffee chains or brands over the past six years — including Keurig Green Mountain, Au Bon Pain, Balzac Coffee, Krispy Kreme and Caribou Coffee — seemed to counter its rival’s latest deal with the Pret pact.

The price of the JAB-Pret deal was not disclosed but believed to be about $2 billion.

At several Midtown Manhattan Pret stores on Tuesday, news of the upcoming bonus was still brewing.

“You’re the second customer to mention this,” said one incredulous Pret manager. “It would be a good thing and I’d be very appreciative, but we haven’t been informed yet.”

A manager at a second Pret store said he’s expected to deliver the good news to his workers at a 6:30 a.m. staff meeting on Wednesday.

Of course, layoffs and cutbacks are more commonly associated with mergers. A bonus paid to all workers is not often the case — if ever.

“A bonus paid to all employees as part of an acquisition is rare in the world of restaurant M&A,” said consultant Aaron Allen. The bonus is worth about $16 million.

“I would suspect it was listed as a condition of the sale by Pret to JAB for all the hard work its people made to growing the business,” Allen added.

When word gets out about the bonus, Pret will have a competitive advantage in attracting top talent at a time when employment is tight in the restaurant industry.

“Pret has an opportunity to have access to a wider pool of applicants for a short period of time and during that time can pick the very best of the best to become employees for them,” restaurant analyst Mark Kalinowski told The Post.

Founded in 1983, Pret is now owned by private equity firm Bridgepoint Capital.

At least one Pret employee is hoping the bonus isn’t the last piece of good news coming out of the deal.

“We are waiting to see what changes will come,” said one manager. “We were promised that Pret policies will not change.”