psa

Peugeot busts a new move on styling of the 508 May 28 Peugeot design boss explains the new 508's unconventional looks.



Dominique takes a clean-sheet approach for PSA May 21 In its return to North America, PSA is rethinking how it will retail vehicles, which brands it will sell and how it will tackle mobility, says the company's CEO for the region, Larry Dominique.



'Old-time' car guy Larry Dominique preps PSA's new era of retailing May 21 Former Nissan and TrueCar executive Larry Dominique is devising PSA's decade-long return to the U.S. with a focus on mobile apps, car sharing and a possible retail network in which dealers could “actually make a profit” on new-vehicle sales.



PSA plots lower-cost course for U.S. return May 14 Author: Urvaksh Karkaria PSA Group is considering a tech-centric, digital shopper-focused approach to selling cars as it plots its comeback in the United States.



PSA's Opel suspends staff buyouts as engineers quit for BMW, Jaguar May 11 Opel has suspended voluntary buyouts after staff representatives warned that a wave of departures following PSA's takeover could leave it short of skilled workers.



PSA pins hopes on EU after Trump quits Iran deal May 9 European leaders sought to salvage the nuclear pact with Iran after President Donald Trump pulled the United States out of the accord, threatening investments in Iran by companies including PSA and Renault.



Canada a key to French automaker PSA's return to North America May 8 Author: Dave Guilford Canada, with its French-speaking eastern provinces, will play a key role in French automaker PSA’s plan to return to North America, the executive leading the effort said on Tuesday.



PSA first-quarter revenue jumps 42% on Opel-Vauxhall acquisition April 24 PSA revenue rose 42 percent to 18 billion euros ($22 billion) in the first quarter, lifted by its acquisition of Opel-Vauxhall last year.



PSA's Tavares faces toughest opponent yet in German union April 20 PSA boss Carlos Tavares, who is no stranger to thrashing out difficult labor deals, is now taking on Germany's powerful IG Metall union, which has been the undoing of many a cost cutter.



PSA seeks 3,700 Opel job cuts in Germany, labor chief says April 20 PSA wants 3,700 job cuts at Opel in Germany by 2020 and a process of contract buyouts and early retirement has already resulted in a reduction of about 2,000 positions, Opel's labor chief said.



PSA fight to slash Opel factory costs intensifies April 19 PSA's fight to cut production costs at Opel's German factories took on a national dimension with Chancellor Angela Merkel intervening to say she expected the French automaker to honor commitments it made when it bought Opel from GM last year.

