The beef just got bigger: Pusha T claimed in a new song that Drake has a love child named Adonis with an ex-porn star.

In “The Story of Adidon,” which dropped Tuesday night, the G.O.O.D Music rapper alleges that Drake, 31, fathered a son with a former adult actress named Sophie Brussaux.

Drake was photographed with Brussaux in January 2017. In May 2017, she claimed she was pregnant with his child, TMZ reported, and alleged that he urged her to have an abortion.

At the time, Drake’s rep told TMZ, “This woman has a very questionable background. She has admitted to having multiple relationships. We understand she may have problems getting into the United States. She’s one of many women claiming he got them pregnant. If it is in fact Drake’s child, which he does not believe, he would do the right thing by the child.”

A source close to Drake voiced serious doubts to Page Six that he was the father of Brussaux’s child, but said that if he was, he’d step up for the child.

Pusha referenced the scandal in his track.

“Since you name-dropped my fiancée / Let ’em know who you chose as your Beyoncé / Sophie knows better, ask your baby mother / Cleaned her up for IG, but the stench is on her / A baby’s involved, it’s deeper than rap / We talkin’ character, let me keep with the facts / You are hidin’ a child, let that boy come home / Deadbeat motherf—ker playin’ border patrol,” Pusha raps in the song. “Adonis is your son / And he deserves more than an Adidas press run, that’s real / Love that baby, respect that girl / Forget she’s a porn star, let her be your world.”

Brussaux’s Instagram account has since been made private (perhaps what Pusha referenced with “cleaned her up for IG”), though a fan account has posted several photos that were on her page previously, including one of her showing off her bump at her baby shower.

A post shared by Sophie Brussaux (@sophiebrussaux) on Oct 19, 2017 at 9:21am PDT

The diss track is just the latest in a war of words between the rappers.

In Pusha T’s track “Infrared” off his album “Daytona,” released Friday, he resurrected rumors that Drake uses ghostwriter Quentin Miller, rapping, “The lyric pennin’ equal the Trumps winnin’/ The bigger question is how the Russians did it / It was written like Nas, but it came from Quentin.”

Drake retaliated with the instantly viral “Duppy Freestyle” on Friday, in which he references Pusha T’s engagement to Virginia Williams as well as Kanye West, who produced much of “Daytona.”

Pusha told “Ebro in the Morning” last week that his feud with Drake began after Drake questioned his past as an alleged drug dealer in his track “Two Birds, One Stone.”

“A lot of talk about the record, or whatever the case may be … I guess, just speaking his truth, questioning my validity to the streets and so on and so forth within that verse,” Pusha said. “It’s fine. That’s what it was. But if we’re gonna question things, it’s my turn to question.”

A rep for Drake declined to comment on his potential paternity.