CLOSE From Han Solo's Millennium Falcon to the Enterprise D, here's all the cool stuff you can fit in the home of the Indy 500. Stephen J. Beard/IndyStar

This May 30, 1911 file photo shows Ray Harroun driving his No. 32 Marmon Wasp race car to victory in the inaugural Indianapolis 500 auto race at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, in Indianapolis. (Photo: AP)

Shortly after the first motor sports enthusiasts discovered how much fun it was to go fast, they discovered how important — and difficult — it is to stop quickly and survive high-speed crashes.

Thus began a century-plus of safety innovations that would migrate from the race track to public streets, and vice versa.

“Motor sports has always been a contributor to developments in safety and engineering,” said Jeremy Goddard, a member of the Society of Automotive Engineers Mobility History committee.

It hasn’t been a smooth ride. The first notable safety advance — the rearview mirror — was banned for years because Indy 500 organizers thought it gave the driver an unfair advantage. On other occasions, race car drivers resisted safety features we take for granted. Many opposed seat belts for years because they thought it was better to be thrown from the car than trapped in a burning wreck.

“The editor of Motor Sport magazine was wildly opposed to seat belts and campaigned against them for years,” Goddard said.

Just like the days when drivers and mechanics lit up a sponsor’s cigarette behind the wheel and in the pits, it’s hard to imagine that today, but it’s just one chapter in the intertwined history of motor sports and safety innovation.

Read more:

Rearview mirrors

“Ray Harroun is in the Indianapolis Speedway Hall of Fame, but the rearview mirror that helped him win the first Indy 500 in 1911 was banned for years,” said Matt Anderson, curator of transportation at the Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation in Dearborn, Mich.

Every car in the race except Harroun’s yellow and black Marmon Wasp had two occupants, the driver and a “riding mechanic” whose job included watching behind for traffic. Harroun’s 3-by-8-inch mirror made his car lighter by eliminating the need for a second occupant. Other drivers complained, and rearview mirrors were not permanently allowed at Indy until the late ‘30s.

Disc brakes

Jaguar and British Racing Motors began using disc brakes in the early ‘50s at the 24 Hours of Le Mans and in Grand Prix racing, Goddard said. The brakes lasted longer and provided more stopping power in extreme use than the drubrakes that were common until then. Nearly all vehicles use disc brakes today.

Safety cage

Rover racing cars in the 1950s pioneered the safety cage or roll cage that was the precursor to energy-absorbing vehicle structures that allow people to walk away from violent, high-speed crashes today, Goddard said. It was the brainchild of engineering whiz Spen King, who went on to become later Rover chief engineer and create the first luxury SUV with the original Range Rover.

A detailed look at the safety precautions, including carbon fibre door lining, medical kit and roll cage in the vehicle from Leeroy Poulter and Robert Howie of South Africa from Team Imperial Toyota during the 2014 Dakar Rally Previews (Photo: Dean Mouhtaropoulos, Getty Images)

Antilock brakes

English engineering specialist Ferguson Formula Developments, or FFD, built a few race cars with antilock brake systems for in the 1960s, Goddard said. Called ABS, the system is used on nearly every new vehicle today. It keeps the brakes from locking, making it easier for the driver to control the car even in panic stops. FFD also developed a pioneering all-wheel-drive Formula 1 race car, the P99, which ran with little success in the early 1960s.

All-wheel drive

All-wheel-drive came into its own when legendary Volkswagen executive Ferdinand Porsche made AWD synonymous with high-performance cars that used all four wheels to transfer the engine’s power to the pavement, most notably the original Audi Quattro rally car.

Markku Alen and co driver navigator Ilkka Kivimaki of Finland driving the #2 Martini Lancia Delta Integrale duringthe FIA World Rally Championship 44th Lombard RAC Rally on 24th November 1988 in Wykeham, Great Britain. (Photo: Pascal Rondeau, Getty Images)

Fiat SpA’s legendary Lancia Delta Integrale Group B rally car further popularized AWD for performance cars in the 1980s. Street cars stressed that AWD provides more control on slippery surfaces as well as when racing.

Crash data recorders

Like the black boxes in planes, data recorders keep track of what happened and how severe crashes and other incidents are. The Indy 500 required them starting in 1993, and most new vehicles have them today.

Multifunction steering wheels

Most modern vehicles' steering wheels have built-in controls for audio, cruise control or voice recognition, a trend that began when race car designers learned it was easier and safer for drivers to adjust controls if they didn’t have to look away from the road to find the right button or dial.

“It’s like they teach you in driver’s ed: Keeping your hands on the wheel is safest,” Anderson said.

Laser headlights

High-intensity headlights using lasers were pioneered by Audi’s endurance racing cars at Le Mans and other races in this decade, Goddard said.

What’s next? Carbon fiber

Airliners, military aircraft and many race cars are already made of carbon fiber, a composite that’s lighter and stronger than steel. The expensive material is used on a few high-performance cars like the Ford GT and Chevrolet Corvette, but automakers are hard at work to reduce its cost and make it easier to work with so they can use it to make affordable mass-market cars and trucks lighter, safer and more fuel efficient. The 2019 GMC Sierra is an example. It will offer an optional carbon fiber cargo box.

Contact Mark Phelan: mmphelan@freepress.com or 313-222-6731. Follow him on Twitter @mark_phelan.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2x0uyvg