Raising Rifle-Buying Age to 21 Would Disarm American Heroes and Spit on Founding Intent 0 by David Codrea March 2, 2018

The latest citizen disarmament plot currently being hatched will raise the minimum age for rifle purchases to 21. While some are specifically calling out semi-automatic rifles, others want it all. Such plans are gaining traction at the state and federal level by no shortage of Democrat opportunists and “bipartisan” Republican panderers, including Sen. Marco Rubio and President Donald Trump.

An interesting article over at Firearms News notes Audie Murphy would have been deemed “too young” to be trusted with a rifle at the time his legendary heroics earned him recognition as the most decorated combat soldier of WWII. It goes on to imagine a gun store clerk telling not just him, but “our young combat heroes, veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan, who may have lost limbs and fought for our freedom, that they have no Second Amendment freedom because they are not 21 years old.”

Could anything be more offensive and absurd?

That’s what these oath-breaking poltroons are doing when they propose disarming Americans old enough to give “the last full measure of devotion” to their country. That’s what corporate cowards like Edward Stack of Dick’s Sporting Goods (and Walmart and other despicable gunkapo profiteers) are saying.

As for those proposing legislative changes, that would also seem to fly in the face of 10 U.S. Code § 246 – Militia: composition and classes:

“(a) The militia of the United States consists of all able-bodied males at least 17 years of age and, except as provided in section 313 of title 32, under 45 years of age who are, or who have made a declaration of intention to become, citizens of the United States and of female citizens of the United States who are members of the National Guard. (b) The classes of the militia are— (1) the organized militia, which consists of the National Guard and the Naval Militia; and (2) the unorganized militia, which consists of the members of the militia who are not members of the National Guard or the Naval Militia.”

The Second Militia Act of 1792 recognized 18 as the age of conscription, and the Founders recognized that this did not in itself establish limits and bans. From Continental Congress Delegate and political economist Tench Coxe:

“THE POWERS OF THE SWORD ARE IN THE HANDS OF THE YEOMANRY OF AMERICA FROM SIXTEEN TO SIXTY. The militia of these free commonwealths, entitled and accustomed to their arms, when compared to any possible army must be tremendous and irresistible. Who are these militia? [A]re they not ourselves. Is it feared, then, that we shall turn our arms each against his own bosom. Congress have no power to disarm the militia. Their swords, and every other terrible implement of the soldier, are the birthright of an American. . . . [T]he unlimited power of the sword is not in the hands of either the federal or state governments, but, where I trust in God it will ever remain, in the hands of the people.”

Pretenders, frauds and outright traitors seeking to usurp a birthright are no friends to Liberty. They’re wrong on history, wrong on morality, wrong on the Constitution…

There will be no compromise with such as these. Equivocating, desperate excuse-making and weasel-words notwithstanding, anyone – anyone – seeking to exploit the bloody failures of tyranny by imposing more Intolerable Acts, infringements and restrictions on freedom is selling me out, selling you out, selling our children out, and should be spoken to accordingly and in no uncertain terms.

—–

If you believe in the mission of Oath Keepers, to defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic, please make a donation to support our work. You can donate HERE.

—–

David Codrea’s opinions are his own. See “Who speaks for Oath Keepers?”