Raytheon to transition ESSM missile program to production, fabrication



by James Laporta



Washington (UPI) May 21, 2018



Raytheon has been awarded a contract by the Defense Department for evolved sea sparrow missiles.

The contract award from Naval Sea Systems Command is valued at more than $77 million under the terms of a firm-fixed-price contract to provide services in support of evolved sea sparrow missiles, according to the Pentagon.

Evolved sea sparrow missiles are used to protect naval ships from incoming enemy missiles. The contract specifically will provide "engineering, test equipment, material and management necessary to transition" to block II missiles.

Work on the contract will occur in multiple locations across the United States, as well as the Netherlands, Germany, Australia and Norway.

The period of performance is expected to be complete in December 2020.

More than $61.5 million will be obligated to Raytheon at time of award from Navy fiscal 2018 research, development, test and evaluation and other procurement funds.

The contract announcement said that none of the obligated funds will expire at the end of the current fiscal year, the Pentagon said.



Related Links

Learn about missile defense at SpaceWar.com

All about missiles at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Washington (UPI) May 11, 2018 (UPI) May 11, 2018

