By StoryStudio

Imagine you have the chance to bring back someone you love. Someone who has died. Someone you never thought you’d see again. But the only way you can do this is by implanting memories into a bot designed to look and speak like that person, designed to help you cope as your own memories fade away. Would you do it? And which memories would you opt to keep … and or forget? These are just a few of the questions raised by Jordan Harrison’s Pulitzer Prize-nominated play, Marjorie Prime, a fascinating and deeply human meditation on life, loss, memory, and how technology interweaves itself between all three.

The play takes place in the year 2062 and centers around Marjorie, an 85-year-old woman suffering from Alzheimer’s. To help with her fading cognition, Marjorie’s daughter and son-in-law enlist the help of a company called Senior Serenity, which provides lifelike bots called Primes as companions for the elderly. Taking the physical form deemed best for the person they’ve been created to assist, Primes are given data and memories and then programmed to feed the story of the person’s life back to them in a comforting way. Against the wishes of her daughter, Marjorie selects the 30-year-old version of her long-deceased husband, Walter, as her Prime.

As the realities of the implications of such an arrangement come to light, deep family secrets are revealed piece by piece, the plot unfolding with a surprising series of twists and turns that drive home not only the impact artificial intelligence can (and will) have on human lives, but the complicated relationships between family members—both human and machine.

Now a major motion picture starring Jon Hamm and Lois Smith, Marjorie Prime returns to its original form upon the stage, with a Bay Area run at the Marin Theatre Company, May 3–27. To prepare for curtain call (not to mention, ahem, the impact artificial intelligence may soon have on our own lives), let’s revisit some of the most fascinating depictions of AI found on the silver screen.

1. Her: In Spike Jonze’s preternaturally tender 2013 film, Her, Joaquin Phoenix plays a lonely writer named Theodore, heartbroken by the implosion of his marriage. In between gigs writing personal letters for other people, he acquires an artificially intelligent operating system called OS1, designed to go beyond AI and into actual consciousness. Theodore grows more and more attached to the voice behind the the system (no wonder, as that voice is Scarlett Johansen’s), and eventually, the two fall in love. But is it love? Can it be love? The film reckons with the boundaries and limits of consciousness and connection in a way that extends far beyond classic sci-fi.

2. Westworld: Based on Michael Crichton’s 1973 film of the same name, this explosive HBO series delves into a futuristic world in which the super-wealthy vacation in a theme park populated by extremely lifelike android hosts. Westworld, as the theme park is called, resembles the Wild West and allows visitors to live out their wildest fantasies: sexual, bloodthirsty, and beyond. The hosts are programmed never to retaliate, until one day … they do. The show raises mind-bending questions about consciousness, and what it means to be human.

3. WALL-E: It’s the far-off future. Earth is a barren wasteland covered in trash, abandoned by humankind and left to a hapless and weirdly adorable garbage-collecting robot named WALL-E. As he sifts through the flotsam and jetsam of life on earth as we knew it, the little robot becomes enamored with history, and particularly show tunes. Then, a sleek reconnaissance robot named EVE shows up, sent back to Earth to find out whether it can be habitable once again, and WALL-E falls in love with her. This beautifully rendered, nearly silent 2008 Pixar film was made for children but seethes with age-old questions and implications both dark and poetic.

4. Blade Runner: In both the 1982 original and the 2017 reboot, this sci-fi classic follows Deckhard, a futuristic assassin of sorts called a blade runner, ordered to pursue and terminate four renegade “replicants,” androids who have stolen a ship and returned to Earth to find their creator. What results is a noirish thriller that raises serious questions about artificial intelligence and human engineering.

﻿

5. Black Mirror: The characters and scenarios in Charlie Brooker’s BBC-to-Netflix anthology series are completely different each time, but a deep vein of techno-paranoia links them all. From 2011’s divisive first episode, which featured some rather unsavory activities between a Prime Minister and a pig, the show has plunged viewers into a wild array of dystopian futures. Season two 2 premiere “Be Right Back” offers up a plot line highly similar to Marjorie Prime’s, where a dead boyfriend returns in the form of a bot. Needless to say, things get a little crazy.</p

6. The Matrix: “You take the blue pill: the story ends, you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to believe. You take the red pill: you stay in Wonderland, and I show you how deep the rabbit-hole goes.” This 1999 classic stars Keanu Reeves as Neo, a man living two lives: computer programmer by day, hacker by night. One day, he’s called upon by alleged cyberterrorist Morpheus, who introduces Neo to the real world: a wasteland run by machines where humans are nothing but prisoners in an artificial reality known as the Matrix. Thus ensues the ultimate battle between humans and machines.

Now that you’ve done your homework, buy your ticket and take the ride!