The remnants of Subtropical Storm Alberto are expected to bring heavy rain to the Chicago area Wednesday afternoon, lasting well through the evening rush hour and prompting warnings about flooding, according to the National Weather Service.

The storm comes as the city and suburbs have seen near-record rainfall — as of Wednesday morning, this was the third-wettest May with 7.31 inches of rain, said Charles Mott, a meteorologist for the National Weather Service. And we’re just shy of the second-wettest May set in 1883 with 7.32 inches, Mott said. Chicago’s wettest May was in 1945 with 7.59 inches of rainfall.

The average rainfall for May is typically 3.68 inches, said Andrew Krein, another meteorologist for the weather service. But this past month saw four days that each had close to an inch of rain, Krein said.

It’s been a rainy month because the area had a later spring than usual with temperatures not warming up until this month, Mott said. April saw a record 16 days in which temperatures were 32 degrees or lower, according to the weather service.

Alberto, along with system coming from the northwest will merge this afternoon, to produce the latest rainfall this afternoon, according to the weather service. Alberto made landfall in the Florida panhandle and has since been traveling north.

A tropical storm traveling this far north is relatively unusual, though not unheard of, local meteorologists say.

“Most of the tropical storms die out itself, then it actually turns into a low pressure system,” Mott said. “It just so happens that this one is sliding up into our direction.”

It is unusual for storms to hit this early — tropical storm season is June through October, meteorologists say.

Heavy rain with a possibility of thunderstorms is expected to begin moving into the area from about 1 p.m. to 7 p.m., Mott said. That will make for a messy commute home, and motorists should take precautions because the rainfall could cause localized flooding.

“This could possibly hit the afternoon rush hour,” he said. “People should slow down.”

The areas along Interstate 55 are expected to be hit the hardest with rain, according to the weather service. Stronger storms could create wind gusts of more than 40 mph.

By Thursday, warm temperatures are expected to return with a high of 90 degrees and a chance of thunderstorms in the evening.

emalagon@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @ElviaMalagon

Alberto leaves flooding, downed trees in its wake across Southeast »

Get the current forecast for the Chicago area »