renault

Daimler CEO Zetsche questioned over emissions fixes May 29 Germany's Transport Ministry questioned Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche over how many Mercedes vans and cars need to be fixed to meet emissions rules after the automaker was ordered to recall Vito vans because they breached emissions regulations.



Renault-Nissan invests in China, U.S., French startups May 23 The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance's new venture capital fund is backing autonomous driving, artificial intelligence and solid-state battery startups.



Ghosn: It'll take time to get Renault-Nissan deal right May 23 Carlos Ghosn tamped down expectations of a quick deal to combine Nissan and Renault, saying the specter of failed mergers in his industry loomed large.



Nissan CEO denies Renault merger talks May 21 Author: Hans Greimel Nissan CEO Hiroto Saikawa dismisses reports that his Japanese carmaker is hammering out full integration with longtime alliance partner Renault, saying "There is no fact to the effect that we are negotiating any merger."



Nissan seeking better terms in Renault merger talks, report says May 18 As Nissan and Renault discuss ways -- including a possible merger -- to strengthen their ties, Nissan is resisting a combination unless the company gains more clout in key areas, Bloomberg reported.



At Nissan-Renault, the hunt for an 'irreversible,' sustainable future April 20 The alliance between Renault and Nissan needs to come up with a sustainable plan -- something "irreversible" -- for a future when Carlos Ghosn is no longer around as chairman to guide the partnership, the top executive says.



Ghosn confirms review of Renault-Nissan capital structure April 17 Carlos Ghosn said he is open to all options as Renault and Nissan explore deeper ties. The two automakers are in talks to merge, according to reports.



Ghosn seeks Renault-Nissan deal for when 'mere mortal' steps in March 30 Carlos Ghosn has revived two troubled automakers and he's in the midst of doing so with a third. Now, he's poised to undertake what might well be his final act: A full merger of Renault SA and Nissan Motor Co.



Nissan, Renault engaged in merger talks to create new automaker, report says March 29 Renault and Nissan are in talks to merge and create a new automaker that trades as a single stock, Bloomberg reported, citing sources with knowledge of the matter.



Ghosn lays groundwork for Alliance without him March 19 Ghosn moves a step closer to reassuring Renault, Nissan and Mitsubishi shareholders that their Alliance will outlast him.



Renault-Nissan names teams to find more synergies March 14 The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance continued its management reorganization by naming members of new teams designed to find new synergies in purchasing, engineering and other departments.

