FILE - In this Dec. 20, 2015, file photo, former Miami heat player Shane Battier gestures to his former teammates before an NBA basketball between the Miami Heat and Portland Trail Blazers in Miami. Battier was hired Thursday, Feb. 16, 2017, to lead the new analytics department for the Miami Heat, the team he helped win NBA championships in 2012 and 2013. (AP Photo/Lynne Sladky, File) (Photo: The Associated Press)

It would appear that there'll be no homecoming for Shane Battier this time.

ESPN writer Zach Lowe tweeted on Tuesday that "Battier has withdrawn from consideration for a leading front-office role in Detroit, sources tell ESPN."

Note on Pistons continuing front-office search: Shane Battier has withdrawn from consideration for a leading front-office role in Detroit, sources tell ESPN. — Zach Lowe (@ZachLowe_NBA) May 29, 2018

Battier, 39, is the Miami Heat vice president of basketball development and analytics. He played 13 seasons in the NBA, winning a pair of titles in Miami. Before that, he won a national title at Duke. Before then, he was Michigan's Mr. Basketball out of Birmingham Detroit Country Day.

The Heat granted Battier permission to interview with the Pistons earlier this month, according to the Palm Beach Post.

It is believed that Battier has mixed feelings to making a big step to a GM-type position this early in his career as an executive.

Last week, the Pistons hired Ed Stefanski from the Memphis Grizzlies as a senior advisor tasked with reshaping the team's basketball operations department. The Free Press has reported that the Pistons are interested a young, rising executive to be the face of the franchise.

More: Jamie Samuelsen: Pistons biggest hire will be general manager, not head coach

The Free Press has also reported that Stefanski would meet with current Pistons general manager Jeff Bower, whose contract ends at the end of June, on Tuesday.

The likely path for the Pistons is to hire a president/general manager before bringing in a new head coach.

Free Press sports writer Vince Ellis contributed to this report.