CLOSE More than 100 people showed up outside of U.S. Rep. David Trott's Troy office to urge the congressman to support the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program that protects young immigrants, Kathleen Gray, Detroit Free Press

Candlelight vigil at Hart Plaza in Detroit for DACA immigrants on March 5, 2018, the deadline set by Pres. Donald Trump to reach a deal on DACA legislation. The protesters called for a clean DREAM Act. (Photo: Niraj Warikoo)

With scarcely seven months left in his second and apparently final term representing Michigan's 11th Congressional District, Rep. David Trott (R-Birmingham) is at last distancing himself from President Donald Trump's callous abuse of young immigrants who were brought to this country as children.

The six Republicans hoping to succeed him probably wish they had Trott's freedom to do the right thing, or even the pragmatic one. But they've got to get through a Republican primary this August, so most are anxious to assure the GOP hardliners most likely to vote in that historically low-turnout contest that they haven't been infected with Trott's bipartisan pragmatism.

Trott, who spent most of his three years in the U.S. House as a low-impact back-bencher in the Republican caucus, made uncharacteristic noise this month by adding his signature to a discharge petition that seeks to force an up-or-down vote on a path to citizenship for "Dreamers," a term used to describe the million or so young immigrants who came of age in the United States over the last decade after being brought here, with or without their consent, by undocumented adults.

Spear-headed by five Republican moderates facing difficult re-election campaigns in states with large immigrant populations, the discharge initiative would compel the full House to take up-or-down votes on four immigration bills the White House and outgoing House Speaker Paul Ryan have fought to keep in limbo.

But the discharge campaign's primary objective is to restore permanent legal status, and open a path to citizenship, to the young Dreamers whose futures have been clouded by Trump's decision to cancel the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, also known as DACA.

Target the little children

Before we examine the anxiety Trott's decision has stirred in GOP primary rivals, it may be useful to recall how little controversy DACA and its beneficiaries stirred before Trump trashed the program last year. Some immigration hawks complained that Obama overstepped his authority in taking unilateral action to protect young immigrants. But most Americans recognized that it would be unjust to deport Dreamers just for accompanying their parents to the United States when they were too young to take any part in that decision.

The case for providing dreamers with a path to citizenship is even greater when they have taken advantage of their circumstances to obtain educational credentials and skills that make them meaningful contributors to their U.S. communities. Recent polling suggests that nearly nine out of 10 voters, including majorities in both major parties, favor allowing Dreamers who are working or enrolled in school to remain in the U.S.

Yet as of Friday, only one of the six Republicans seeking Trott's seat — Mike Kowall, currently the Republican state senator from northwest Oakland County — dared to support Trott's efforts to restore DACA.

Kowall said he hadn't read the discharge petition or the four bills Trott and his fellow signatories seek to bring to to the House floor, but added that he supports providing a path to citizenship for Dreamers and was sympathetic to the discharge petitioners' motives. Asked whether he would support an up-or-down vote on restoring DACA, Kowall said: "I would lean in that direction."

Five others — former U.S. Rep Kerry Bentivolio, state Rep Klint Kesto (R-Commerce Twp.), former state Rep. Andrew "Rocky" Raczkowski, and first-time candidates Kristine Bonds and Lena Epstein — all said they would not have signed the discharge petition and would support allowing Dreamers to remain in the U.S. only if it were tied to comprehensive immigration reform. The latter, of course, is the bipartisan holy grail that has eluded Congress for generations.

People as poker chips

Trump is more specific about the quid pro quo he wants in return for restoring Dreamers' legal status.

He insists that he sympathizers with the plight of immigrants who arrived as children and that he pulled the plug on DACA only because his predecessor acted without congressional authority. But he has opposed an up-or-down vote on reviving the program, vowing to veto such legislation unless it's accompanied by funding for the wall he has pledged to build on the Mexican border.

The lawmakers seeking to discharge a DACA bill see Dreamers as innocents (and, perhaps, future voters) who deserve protection and due process. Trump and his enablers in the House see them as chips that can be traded for other political objectives, such as a border wall or dramatic reductions in legal immigration, help for refugees or foreign aid.

Unlike Trott and his colleague U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, another Michigan Republican who has defied Republican House leaders by signing the DACA discharge petition, Bentivolio, Bonds, Epstein, Kesto, and Raczkowski needn't fear the retribution of their party's current House leaders. Speaker Ryan will be gone when the new House convenes next January, and it's unclear whether his preferred successor, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, will be able to command a majority after the November election.

What Trott's would-be successors have to fear is the retribution of Oakland County voters who are generally skeptical of Trump and specifically offended by his callous exploitation of the Dreamers' vulnerability. A Republican primary victor seen as hostile to young immigrants could face a difficult time wooing general election voters this November.

But first the six Republicans vying for Trott's seat have to get by their party's primary voters, a constituency that tends to be smaller, more socially conservative and less tolerant of mavericks who wander off the Republican reservation on litmus-test issues like immigration and abortion.

So far, all but Kowall are betting they can appease their party's hardliners in August and use the three months before the November election to convince general election voters they'll be more compassionate, and more reasonable, if they get to the U.S. House.

Good luck with that, ladies and gentlemen.

Contact Brian Dickerson: bdickerson@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xoyYMX