Request for Expression of Interest (EOI)

Pre-Qualification of Transaction Advisory Firms

Enquiry # LED/222/Service Consultant/17

1. Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd (SNGPL) and Sui Southern Gas Company Limited (SSGC), the two gas utility companies operating in Pakistan, as procuring organization intend to engage the services of a Transaction Advisory (TA) Firm for Structural Reforms converting the present gas transmission and distribution arrangement in the Country into four province-wise gas distribution companies and one nation-wide gas Transmission Company.

2. The scope of the Transaction Advisory Firm will include but not limited to suggesting detailed Transaction Implementation Strategy and Roadmap with the minimum required changes to the organizational arrangements, corporate policies, and HR dispensation prevailing in SNGPL and SSGC. Transaction Advisory Firm will be responsible to execute all necessary Legal and Commercial arrangements including post-unbundling support. It is envisioned that a consulting firm, having extensive experience of carrying out comprehensive gas sector reforms will deploy several highly qualified and experienced experts for Due Diligence of Technical, HR, legal, Financial and Regulatory assignments with vast experience from the industry. The consulting firm will bring in specialized technical experts during project period as per project requirement to enhance the implementation capacity. The Transaction Advisory Firm will be responsible for end to end process as a single lead by looking after the legal and commercial processes required for demerger / incorporation / merger of new entities including issuances of necessary regulatory licenses and completion of all formalities for existing and new setups. Detailed scope of work expected from the Transaction Advisor and evaluation criteria for the short listing process are set out in the EOI documents.

3. Through this advertisement, Expression of Interest (EOI) is invited for the shortlisting of the consulting firm(s) having requisite experience in the matter. In case of local consulting firm(s) they must be duly registered with Income Tax and Sales tax department(s) and are on Active Taxpayers List of the Federal Board of Revenue and possess valid professional tax clearance certificate. Foreign consulting firm(s) will be subject to local tax laws and regulations as applicable from time to time.

4. The Consulting firms may associate to enhance their qualifications. The "Association" may take the form of either joint venture or sub-consultancy (mention clearly). After shortlisting, the Transaction Advisory firms will later be asked to submit a detailed technical and financial proposal pursuant to quality and cost based method under single stage two envelope basis in accordance with the procedures as set out in Procurement of Consultancy Services Regulations 2010.

5. Expression of Interest (EOI) documents, (containing detailed terms and conditions, etc. are available with General Manager (Procurement) Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited, 21 Kashmir Road, Lahore Pakistan and/or General Manager (Procurement) Sui Southern Gas Company Limited, St - 4B, Block 14, Sir Shah Suleman Road, Gulshan-e-Iqbal Karachi, Pakistan. Price of the EOI documents is Rs.10,000/- payable through pay order / demand draft in favour of SNGPL from Monday to Friday between 9 AM to 4 PM.

6. Interested parties will be required to purchase Expression of Interest (EOI) documents and submit their queries through email at either of the following addresses:

i) gmpurchase@sngpl.com.pk

ii) ali.khan@ssgc.com.pk

7. The EOI, prepared in accordance with the given instructions, must reach in the office of General Manager (Procurement) Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited, 21 Kashmir Road, Lahore Pakistan on or before 11-06-2018 by 3 PM and same will be opened at 3:30 PM on the same day. No EOI will be accepted if submitted at SSGC's office.

8. No profile(s) will be entertained after the time prescribed, i.e. 3 PM, for submission as mentioned herein above in clause 7 and if submitted after the prescribed time the same shall be rejected and returned, unopened.

9. This advertisement is also available on PPRA website at www.ppra.org.pk and on SNGPL & SSGC websites at www.sngpl.com.pk and www.ssgc.com.pk respectively.

General Manager (Procurement),

Sui Southern Gas Company Limited,

Tender Room, CRD Building, Ground Floor

SSGC Head Office Complex, Karachi

Phone No:0092-2199021024

Fax No:0092-2199231583

Email:ali.khan@ssgc.com.pk



General Manager (Procurement),

Sui Northern Gas Pipe Lines Limited, 21-Kashmir Road,

Lahore.

Phone No: 0092-4299201226

Fax No: 0092-4299201275

Email:gmpurchase@sngpl.com.pk



Washington (UPI) Jan 11, 2018





Jitters ahead of President Trump's decision on oil-related sanctions for Iran and high global demand pushed oil prices ever close to $70 per barrel on Thursday. Crude oil prices are up nearly 4 percent in the span of seven trading days in one of the commodity's sharpest rallies in years. Prices were expected to cool off after jumping in mid December when the Forties pipeline system, whi ... read more

Related Links

