A retired NYPD officer convicted of misusing city resources to benefit two Mayor de Blasio donors says he didn’t realize what he was doing was a crime and deserves probation when he is sentenced on June 11.

Disgraced ex-NYPD deputy chief Michael Harrington pleaded guilty in March to one count of misusing city resources to benefit of de Blasio donors Jona Rechnitz and Jeremy Reichberg, including securing a police boat for a private event that Reichberg was hosting.

Harrington, former right-hand man to the NYPD’s then-Chief of Department Philip Banks, faces as much as 10 years in prison when sentenced next month.

But his lawyer argued in a Manhattan federal court filing on Tuesday that while Harrington knew what he was doing was wrong, he somehow had no idea it was a crime until it was too late.

“While he realized it was wrong to cut corners and bypass Department protocol, what Harrington didn’t know at the time was that those derelictions were criminal,” his lawyer, Andrew Weinstein, said in the sentencing submission.

Weinstein also claimed that his client has suffered enough — thanks to the publicity around the case, which has included allegations that Reichberg and Rechnitz tried bribing cops with private jet flights and prostitutes.

Plus, his “status as a former police executive, combined with the extensive publicity attending his case, would either expose him to abuse from fellow inmates or require preventive segregation, forcing him to serve his sentence under unusually harsh conditions,” his lawyer claimed.

Harrington was initially charged with accepting bribes — including thousands of dollars worth of hotel rooms for his family during a trip to Chicago — in exchange for doling out favors to Reichberg and Rechnitz.

He ended up pleading guilty to the one count of misusing resources as part of a plea deal reached in early March.

Harrington’s alleged co-conspirators Reichberg and ex-NYPD officer James Grant go to trial on Oct. 4.

Rechnitz has already pleaded guilty and is expected to testify at trial.