The Yeah Yeah Yeahs’ Karen O pointed to a sea of fans spread out before her at the Aragon Ballroom and sang, “All I see is what’s in front of me, and that’s you.”

The crowd’s roar brought the band’s first Chicago show in several years to a halt. “Cool kids, they belong together,” she added as “Poor Song” wound down. The Yeah Yeah Yeahs were the cool kids out of New York City nearly two decades ago, riding the garage-rock wave alongside the Strokes and TV on the Radio.

The trio burned out after four strong albums and a decade on the road. Families were started and tentative solo careers briefly blossomed, but last year the band regrouped and Tuesday it made a boisterous return to Chicago. No new songs were unveiled; the band instead focused on its past, including relative obscurities (“Miles Away”), torn ballads (“Modern Romance”) goth disco (“Heads Will Roll”) and enough guitar-drums swing to suggest a kind of supersonic strip tease.

Karen O wore a typical mash-up of flashy trash fashion, at times suggesting a post-modern ninja with knee pads. There was a lot of sliding, pogoing and microphone swallowing as the singer with the Chrissie Hynde bangs embodied the tsunami conjured by guitarist Nick Zinner and drummer Brian Chase. The music toggled between extremes – squalling passages engulfing quieter ones, wan ballads cloaked in dense patches of electronic mist. There wasn’t a lot of middle ground -- everything was played at either stunning volume or near a hush. Unfortunately, the Aragon’s harsh acoustics often muffled the band’s dynamic arrangements.

Zinner threw up a grid of ping-ponging blips, and his guitar tones swarmed like a bee hive. Chase reared back and punished the drums, or laid back with admirable restraint to give the singer some breathing room. It was Karen O’s show, and she had the swagger of a hip-hop MC – “I’m rich like a hot noise”; “I think I’m bigger than the sound” – and there was no point in arguing with her. Yet the bravado of the “get your leather on” singer only amplified the impact of the night’s moments of vulnerability.

The night’s defining moments told the tale of obsessive love from two distinct vantage points, and illustrated how the band’s music has managed to transcend mere nostalgia. The undulating “Maps” and its expression of devotion took on new resonance with Karen O’s motherhood, while “Y Control” sharpened its edge in the #MeToo era. “I wish I could buy back the woman you stole,” sang Karen O, underlining that she very much remains a woman not to be trifled with.

Yeah Yeah Yeahs set list Tuesday:

1. Modern Romance

2. Rich

3. Cold Light

4. Black Tongue

5. Gold Lion

6. Pin

7. Zero

8. Sacrilege

9. Miles Away

10. Soft Shock

11. Maps

12. Cheated Hearts

13. Heads Will Roll

Encore:

14. Poor Song

15. Y Control

16. Date with the Night

Greg Kot is a Tribune critic.

greg@gregkot.com

Twitter @gregkot

Review: U2: Beauty and bombast at United Center »

Review: Courtney Barnett delivers modest songs, bold solos at Cultural Center »

Lollapalooza aftershows include Franz Ferdinand, Lizzo »

Check out the latest movie reviews from Michael Phillips and the Chicago Tribune.