Thomas D. Mahard and Patrick Loos in Tipping Point Theatre's production of "Northern Aggression." (Photo: Steve Fecht)

The American Civil War ended more than 150 years ago, but it rages on in subtle ways in Tipping Point Theatre's “Northern Aggression,” a wise and witty comedy from Michigan playwright Joseph Zettelmaier.

The play finds transplanted Detroiters Rob and Maddie Graff (Patrick Loos and Alysia Kolascz) living in rural Carson, Georgia, where Maddie has taken a job as a veterinarian. She views the job as a fresh opportunity and likes her new home's large yard, Rob dubs Carson “the place where culture goes to die.”

It doesn’t help that Rob has yet to find work. His discomfort is only heightened by the arrival of his neighbor Benjamin (Doc) Boggs (Thomas D. Mahard), dressed in full Confederate regalia. He insists that Rob join him in a favorite pastime: re-enacting famous battles from the Civil War, or, as Doc prefers to call it, “the War of Northern Aggression.”

If all of this sounds familiar, that's because it is. “Northern Aggression” is the same play as Zettelmaier's “And the Creek Don’t Rise,” which premiered at the Williamston Theatre in 2011.

Aside from the title change, there's nothing noticeably different about the 2018 version of the comedy. Mahard reprises his performance as Doc, a Southern gent with a slightly mysterious past who just might be sticking it to Rob for being a Yankee. Then again, maybe the old man is just being neighborly.

The feud starts with the first battle re-enactment, which Rob botches spectacularly. Doc counters by helping Rob land a job as a receptionist at a Toyota dealership, which the younger man, trained as an engineer, sees as a double insult. A war, or at least a skirmish, of one-upsmanship follows.

At its best, “Northern Aggression" skillfully works its Civil War metaphor without beating it to death. The play tells a simple story about people who are forced to put aside past disappointments and cultural differences to live fully in the present. Director Matt Foss understands that in an age of increased cultural sensitivity and micro-aggressions, the play is even more timely than when it was first performed.

Set designer Jennifer Maiseloff has painted a rural Georgia landscape on the stage, which provides a fitting backdrop for the battlefield scenes. Projections on some slightly clunky vertical blinds help transport us indoors to a hospital room or to the young couple’s front yard.

Channeling the spirits of both Robert E. Lee and Foghorn Leghorn, Mahard perfectly embodies the two sides of Doc. He is the charmer with the Southern lilt, complimenting Maddie on her appearance or asking for a glass of sweet tea, if it’s not too much trouble. He is also the never-surrender Southerner who has no problem rewriting the story of a battle so that even a Confederate loss looks like a moral victory. I can’t imagine a different performer in the role.

The play's emotional payoff didn't work so well for me this time around. Maybe it was because I was already familiar with the story. Maybe it was because the performance I caught at Tipping Point was a preview. It may take a few more performances for Mahard's costars, as a slightly mismatched young couple, to find the proper blend of humor and pathos that the veteran actor learned to nail years ago.

Contact John Monaghan: madjohn@earthlink.net



'Northern Aggression'

Three stars

out of four stars

8 p.m. Thu.-Fri., 3 & 8 p.m. Sat., 2 p.m. Sun. Through June 24.

Tipping Point Theater

361 E. Cady St., Northville

248-347-0003

tippingpointtheatre.com

$30-$37

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IFUEJm