A new portable system small enough to mount on a personal firearm provides its user with the ability to quickly locate the source of hostile gunfire. The PEARL system, created by French defense contractor Metravib, uses acoustic sensors to determine the source of gunfire during the confusion of combat.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

The PEARL system detects the shock waves generated by muzzle blasts from small arms fire. These shock waves travel through the air, radiating from all directions, like radar or sonar waves. With the help of advanced acoustic sensors, PEARL can trace them back to their point of origin.



Although so-called “shot spotting” technology has been out for some time now, PEARL’s system is small enough to mount on a helmet or rifle. The system attaches to the top Picatinny rail of a modern assault rifle and directs the user toward the source of gunfire via LED arrows.

PEARL can provide the azimuth and elevation of gunshots, allowing the user to orient on the threat and act accordingly. The system is accurate within plus-or-minus 7.5 degrees azimuth, and can detect “small and medium caliber weapons,” likely meaning from pistol calibers to 7.62-millimeter machine guns.

PEARL is designed to work in both urban and mountainous terrain, where the sound of gunshots might echo off multiple surfaces. It can also filter out friendly outgoing fire from hostile incoming fire. The system is supposed to be "soldier-proofed"—self-enclosed without any pesky wires and with only three control buttons.

The company describes PEARL as a “soldier protection” system, but the system clearly has offensive applications. PEARL can help friendly attacking forces spot hidden defenders, systematically rooting them out.

Metravib claims that the technology is “combat proven,” hinting that the company’s technology has been used in Iraq, Afghanistan, Balkans, Central African Republic and Mali. A more advanced version of PEARL, the PILAR system, can tell users the range of the enemy gunfire, GPS coordinates, and display on a map the source of the gunfire.