rolls royce

Gin palaces, majesty and the Parthenon: What people are saying about the Rolls-Royce Cullinan May 15 Author: Jack Walsworth Rolls-Royce is the latest ultraluxury automaker to join the SUV fray, with the Cullinan. Powered by the same 571-hp, 6.75-liter, twin-turbocharged V-12 gasoline engine as the Phantom, the Cullinan is also built on the same Rolls-developed aluminum platform that underpins the flagship sedan and all future vehicles. Here's a roundup of initial reaction to the Cullinan.



Rolls-Royce's 'superluxury' Cullinan will be priciest SUV May 10 Author: Nick Gibbs It's billed as the "most family-oriented, fun-to-drive, superluxury SUV imaginable" and the Rolls-Royce Cullinan will become the world's most expensive SUV when it goes on sale toward the end of the year or early 2019.



Change comes to the rarefied May 7 Author: Jack Walsworth In the past year, several notable ultraluxury and exotic nameplates have been freshened or redesigned as automakers look to drive sales and expand brand presence.



BMW's Q1 profit falls 3% on foreign exchange headwinds May 4 BMW posted a 3 percent drop in first-quarter profit as unfavorable exchange rate effects weighed on revenues and earnings, even as the automaker posted higher margins and vehicle sales.



BMW Group looks into a Rolls EV April 2 Author: Amy Wilson With China as an impetus, an electric Rolls-Royce is on the table.



Rolls-Royce stores rebuild for bigger lineup March 19 Author: Jackie Charniga Rolls-Royce dealerships renovations aim to make room for expanded lineup while delivering a unique customer experience.



Aston, Rolls spar over visions of tomorrow's superluxe sedan March 18 Author: Nick Gibbs Aston Martin and Rolls-Royce engaged in a public spat at the Geneva auto show over what the superluxury sedan of the future should look like.



We don't have the words for Rolls' new SUV Feb. 19 A new Rolls-Royce model in a new segment is a rare occurrence.



Rolls-Royce appoints new engineering chief Feb. 13 Author: Nick Gibbs Rolls-Royce named BMW veteran Mihiar Ayoubi as head of engineering at the British ultraluxury brand.



Rolls-Royce will show new SUV at 'closed-room' events Jan. 24 Author: Nick Gibbs Rolls-Royce will show its new SUV in "closed-room" events this summer, as the automaker prepares to join Bentley and Lamborghini in the newest ultraluxury segment.



AutoNews Now: SUVs ride high into ultraluxury market Jan. 24 SUVs ride high into ultraluxury market: 'Closed-room' reveals at Rolls; Lambo sees double with Urus; Bentley Bentayga boom; Ferrari, Aston plans; Baby Jeep on board?; 'Start' for AVs.

