By StoryStudio

Is there any more romantic activity than a beach stroll beside the Pacific Ocean? The waves unfurl and crash into toe-tickling froth, the brown pelicans undulate above the break, and the sandpipers zip about in the near distance. There’s simply no better environment to saunter hand in hand and/or plan and celebrate a romantic vacation or wedding. Now getting to Pismo Beach for this lovers’ jaunt is now even easier, thanks to a growing number of direct flights to and from the San Luis Obispo airport, which are only minutes from Pismo Beach.

Pismo Beach is your Wine and Waves romantic destination with the rich wine region of the Edna Valley only minutes away from your Pismo Beach stay. Sample award winning Pinots and Chardonnays at the many affordable and friendly wineries in the valley. You might think you’re in Burgundy France until you remember your ocean front hotel is only a few miles away.

Hop in and head along the Price Canyon Road to discover Edna Valley magically minutes from the beach. The Seven Sisters volcanic cones rise from the valley floor explaining the rich soil that led winemaking monks to create some of California’s first vintages. A tasting tour illustrates the spectrum of modern winery life, from Tangent Vineyard’s restored yellow clapboard schoolhouse to Tolosa Winery’s leading edge sustainable practice. Bedecked with terraces, Edna Valley wineries provide a great excuse to chill out in the dependable sunshine.

The wineries also come to you in Pismo Beach. A stroll through town takes you to the Sans Liege Wines and Puffers tasting rooms. Tastes of the Valleys wine shop features wines from throughout the region for beach and picnic purchases by the bottle or tasting at the wine bar.

Surf and central coast wine and beer blend beautifully during the annual Wine Waves and Beyond Festival. Held May 4th-6th, area winemakers are joined by brew masters and Central California’s best chefs for a beach weekend sampling sea-inspired cuisine, listening to great music while gazing out from Pismo Beach’s best vistas.

If a wedding is in your plans it is always best to choose a location where you’re close enough to bump into invitees while still free to explore the destination at your own pace. Regardless of how well they know the bride or groom, guests appreciate having some choice over lodging options. Staying within budget in Pismo Beach is just one reason wedding celebrations and other vacations create such a brilliant experience here. Rarely does an oceanfront locale offer this much variety in one ideal snapchatable location.

The Chapman Estate is Pismo Beach’s newest wedding locale, fitting given its longtime owners cherished all objects romantic when building their collection culled from years of globetrotting. Guests step into the sublime gardens beside the distinctive home, the step into the back terraced lawns that appear to float above the Pacific.

Lodging diversity these days is about way more than king bedrooms and complimentary breakfasts. Pismo Beach offers every mode of getaway domicile, from inn to hotel, vacation rental to RV Resort. There are suites and singles and cottages, as well as plenty of pooch-preferred accommodations.

Don’t fancy a fireplace or oceanfront balcony? You can still enjoy first-class hotel amenities and prime locations across Pismo Beach. There’s also a room or suite for you should you wish to warm by the fire while watching the sunset bedside.

Planning a wedding weekend or romantic getaway to Pismo Beach teems with opportunity to unwind, knowing that your guest or lover will soon bask in beach-filled bliss. Whether you choose a suite or studio, townhome rental or resort stay, Pismo Beach lodging invites you to dig your toes into the sand and start plotting away.