CLOSE ABC pulls the plug on 'Roseanne' after racist tweet Josmar Taveras, USA TODAY

Roseanne (Barr) and sister Jackie (Laurie Metcalf) argued about Trump in the first episode of the revival. (Photo: Adam Rose, ABC)

That was fast.

Within hours of Roseanne Barr's racist tweet likening former Obama aide Valerie Jarrett to an ape, ABC canceled her hit sitcom revival and her talent agency, ICM Partners, dropped her as a client.

"Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show," ABC Entertainment chief Channing Dungey announced Tuesday.

Bob Iger, the CEO of parent company Disney, backed her up, tweeting, "There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing."

From Channing Dungey, President of ABC Entertainment: "Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show."

There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing. — Robert Iger (@RobertIger) May 29, 2018

During an aptly timed MSNBC special called Everyday Racism in America, Jarrett said, “This should be a teaching moment.”

BREAKING @ValerieJarrett responds to Roseanne Barr's tweet, saying Disney’s chairman called her before announcing that ABC was canceling the show: "This should be a teaching moment.” pic.twitter.com/s6A4OV6pB0 — MSNBC (@MSNBC) May 29, 2018

In a statement provided by his representative Noelle Jaycox, executive producer Tom Werner (who held that role on both iterations of Roseanne) told USA TODAY, “I support ABC's decision to cancel the show in the wake of Roseanne Barr's most recent reprehensible tweets."

Werner added, "Our goal was to promote constructive discussion about the issues that divide us. It represented the work of hundreds of talented people. I hope the good work done is not totally eclipsed by these abhorrent and offensive comments, and that Roseanne seeks the help she so clearly needs.”

More: Inside Roseanne Barr’s history of offensive tweets

Following Barr’s late-night in which she claimed she was “Ambien-tweeting,” her ex-husband and former co-star Tom Arnold joked that he’d been on Ambien from 1990-94 — the whole time they were married.

I was on Ambien 1990-1994 — Tom Arnold (@TomArnold) May 30, 2018

That followed a Tuesday tweet in which he professed he had a "ton of respect for Bob Iger. Tough decision with financial consequences for his company but right for America."

He also claimed that he was the first to publicly call her out on her "racist and controversial tweets."

Ton of respect for Bob Iger. Tough decision with financial consequences for his company but right for America....umm..now don't bug Bob but maybe someone else find out if I'm still banned from all of @ABCNetwork for calling Roseanne Barr out first on her racist conspiracy tweets? — Tom Arnold (@TomArnold) May 29, 2018

Aftermath: Roseanne blames Ambien for racist tweet that led to cancellation

More: Valerie Jarrett responds to Roseanne Barr: The tone starts with the president

The other members of the Roseanne cast also registered their feelings.

Michael Fishman, who played D.J. Conner, called his TV mom’s comments “reprehensible and intolerable.” He added, “My character (an Army veteran with a biracial daughter) was designed to represent the inclusive nature of my views. To represent portions of society often marginalized. In this moment, it is important to be clear. We must stand up against: bias, hatred, bigotry and ignorance to make society a better place for all.”

Sara Gilbert, who played daughter Darlene, tweeted, "Roseanne’s recent comments about Valerie Jarrett, and so much more, are abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show. I am disappointed in her actions to say the least."

Roseanne’s recent comments about Valerie Jarrett, and so much more, are abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show. I am disappointed in her actions to say the least. — sara gilbert (@THEsaragilbert) May 29, 2018

Emma Rose Kenney, who played Darlene's daughter in the revival, wrote that she had been on the verge of quitting when she learned the news.

"As I called my manager to quit working on Roseanne, I found out the show got cancelled," she tweeted. "I feel so empowered by @iamwandasykes, Channing Dungey and those at ABC standing up against abuse of power and lack of values. Bullies do not win. Ever."

As I called my manager to quit working on Roseanne, I found out the show got cancelled. I feel so empowered by @iamwandasykes , Channing Dungey and those at ABC standing up against abuse of power and lack of values. Bullies do not win. Ever. — Emma Kenney (@EmmaRoseKenney) May 29, 2018

Producer Shonda Rhimes, the creator of ABC's long-running drama Grey’s Anatomy, added, “Honestly (Barr) got what she deserved. As I tell my 4 year old, one makes a choice with one’s actions. Roseanne made a choice. A racist one. ABC made a choice. A human one.”

But honestly she got what she deserved. As I tell my 4 year old, one makes a choice with one’s actions. Roseanne made a choice. A racist one. ABC made a choice. A human one. — shonda rhimes (@shondarhimes) May 29, 2018

Here's a sampling of what others in Hollywood and on social media had to say:

Minnie Driver, who stars in the ABC sitcom Speechless, declared she was "so proud of @ABCNetwork for having the ethical compunction to cancel #Rosanne despite the show’s huge numbers. We too make a show about a middle class family. come watch us instead."

So proud of @ABCNetwork for having the ethical compunction to cancel #Rosanne despite the show’s huge numbers. We too make a show about a middle class family , come and watch us instead #speechless@Speechless_ABC ✨ — Minnie Driver (@driverminnie) May 29, 2018

Director Ava Duvernay praised Dungey's decision, captioning a photo of the programming executive, "For the record, this is Channing Dungey. Sitting on top of your world like a Queen in full judgement of your garbage and taking it out."

For the record, this is Channing Dungey. Sitting on top of your world like a Queen in full judgement of your garbage and taking it out. #Roseannepic.twitter.com/GxEP2B61uq — Ava DuVernay (@ava) May 29, 2018

Breaking Bad star Bryan Cranston praised the Disney boss and expressed his wish that politicians would follow ABC's example: "This morning @RobertIger quickly and easily determined that righteousness trumps profits by firing an open racist and anti-Semite from his company. If our elected officials had the courage to do the same by declaring that country trumps partisanship we’d have a healthier society."

This morning @RobertIger quickly and easily determined that righteousness trumps profits by firing an open racist and anti-Semite from his company. If our elected officials had the courage to do the same by declaring that country trumps partisanship we’d have a healthier society. — Bryan Cranston (@BryanCranston) May 29, 2018

MSNBC's Joe Scarborough, who wrote earlier in the day that "Even in the age of Trump, there are red lines that can never be crossed," followed that tweet with another thanking ABC and Disney for "putting values above money."

BREAKING: @ABC and @Disney do the right thing. There are still boundaries in the Age of Trump that cannot be crossed. Thank you for putting values above money. — Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) May 29, 2018

So did Rep. John Lewis, a Democrat from Georgia: "Thank you, @ABCNetwork. You did the right thing. There is not any room in our society for racism or bigotry."

Thank you, @ABCNetwork. You did the right thing. There is not any room in our society for racism or bigotry. — John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) May 29, 2018

Comedian Kumail Nanjiani, co-writer/star of The Big Sick and HBO's Silicon Valley, expressed mixed feelings: "I'm glad Roseanne is canceled. The backlash to its cancellation is going to be a deafening nightmare. Nothing good has come of this entire thing."

I'm glad Roseanne is canceled.



The backlash to its cancellation is going to be a deafening nightmare.



Nothing good has come of this entire thing. — Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) May 29, 2018

The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), which had recently praised the show for its introduction of a Muslim family to the Conners’ Illinois neighborhood, said ABC ultimately made the right move.

In a statement to USA TODAY, CAIR Executive Director Nihad Awad said, “We welcome the swift and appropriate action taken by ABC and hope it sends a message that the promotion of hatred and bigotry will not be accepted by our nation’s entertainment industry. Ms. Barr has a First Amendment right to express her views, however Islamophobic or racist, but she does not have a constitutional right to a program on a national television network.”

Jason Cianciotto, executive director of the Tyler Clementi Foundation, an anti-bullying charity named after the gay Rutgers University student who committed suicide in 2010 after being cyber-bullied by his roommate, also supported ABC’s move.

In a statement, he told USA TODAY, “We commend ABC Entertainment for their swift, direct condemnation of tweets by Rosanne Barr that amount to cyber-bullying. The network’s cancellation of a successful television show is a clear indicator that nobody — even a celebrity with their own television show — is immune from the consequences of their actions."

More: ABC cancels 'Roseanne' hours after Roseanne Barr's racist tweet targeting Obama adviser

More: Roseanne will never change, and that's why her No. 1 show is now canceled

Writer Bob Chipman (@the_moviebob) updated a controversial joke the show made about ABC's minority-led sitcoms Black-ish and Fresh Off the Boat and turned it against Barr.

"You missed all the shows about Black and Asian families again."



"Are they still just like us?"



"No - they're gonna be on the air next year."#Roseannepic.twitter.com/pUKGLEJGyW — Bob Chipman (@the_moviebob) May 29, 2018

Fox News anchor Shepard Smith said it plainly on his afternoon show: "Racism is not funny and Roseanne Barr is a racist. Now her show is canceled."

Shep: "Racism is not funny and Roseanne Barr is a racist. Now her show is cancelled." pic.twitter.com/TaiqRLHrYb — Lis Power (@LisPower1) May 29, 2018

Writer and comedian @DaveWeasel observed, "You know it’s bad when even Fox News calls Roseanne racist."

You know it’s bad when even Fox News calls Roseanne racist. pic.twitter.com/VELUx8K33D — Dave Weasel (@DaveWeasel) May 29, 2018

Not everyone applauded ABC's move. Conservative fans of Roseanne argued that the network made a dumb decision.

One America News correspondent Jack Posobiec suggested that "Roseanne, Tim Allen, Kevin Sorbo, Stephen Baldwin and other blacklisted content creators should start up their own version of a blockchain-funded Netflix."

Posobiec also wondered why The View's Joy Behar and late-night host Jimmy Kimmel still have jobs when Barr doesn't and cautioned, "Just wait til @realDonaldTrump hits stage tonight to talk about what ABC did to Roseanne."

Roseanne, Tim Allen, Kevin Sorbo, Stephen Baldwin and other blacklisted content creators should start up their own version of a blockchain-funded Netflix — Jack Posobiec🇺🇸 (@JackPosobiec) May 29, 2018

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2LHEexV