CLEVELAND, Ohio - Memo to stars of prime-time shows (even runaway hits): You toss enough lighted matches around enough open vats of gasoline and, sooner or later, things will be going up in a blaze. And guess who will be standing closest to the inferno when things get hot?

Roseanne Barr's lighted matches were a series of ugly Twitter blasts pitched into the gasoline-soaked terrain of social media. They were incendiary comments, all right, laced with racism and anti-Semitism. The resulting firestorm spread rapidly, costing Barr her revival series and depriving ABC of a badly needed new hit.

You've probably heard a word or two by now about ABC canceling its hit revival of the sitcom "Roseanne." ABC executives may have issued the order condemning the prime-time property, but it was Barr who set the fire that consumed it in a blaze of outrage and disgust.

The fire started spreading Tuesday morning, fanned by a rapidly building furor in the highly volatile social-media universe. Barr had taken to Twitter to describe former President Barack Obama's adviser Valerie Jarrett as an offspring of the "Muslim Brotherhood & Planet of the Apes."

Reaction was swift, from Barr's co-stars and co-workers. Comedian Wanda Sykes, a consulting producer on the "Roseanne" revival, announced she would not be returning for the show's second season. Sara Gilbert, who plays Barr's daughter, said in a tweet that Barr's remarks were "abhorrent and do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show."

Barr soon realized just how far over the line the Jarrett attack was. She was back on Twitter with an apology and a promise to quit Twitter. Then, five minutes later, she was back with an expanded apology: "I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans. I am truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks. I should have known better. Forgive me - my joke was in bad taste."

Then her Twitter account went silent. But the social-media roar was ramping up as the discussion included another Barr tweet from Tuesday. This one hit investor and political activist George Soros with a many-times discredited conspiracy theory: "By the way, George Soros is a nazi who turned in his fellow Jews 2 be murdered in German concentration camps & stole their wealth."

The outrage soon engulfed ABC, which was being pressured for a response. It seemed to take forever, but by network television standards, executives moved swiftly and decisively. They announced that Sykes wouldn't be the only one not coming back for a second season.

"Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values, and we have decided to cancel her show," the network's entertainment president, Channing Dungey, said in a statement released by Disney-owned ABC.

Disney CEO Bob Iger sent out a tweet of his own: "There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing."

This decision clearly gave Dungey and Iger no pleasure. Going into the 2017-18 television season, ABC was in bad shape. With the new version of "American Idol" underperforming, two success stories provided key building blocks going into the 2018-19 season.

First was the success of the rookie drama "The Good Doctor." Second was the ratings-rich return of "Roseanne."

There were voices on the left critical of ABC for giving Barr, an outspoken Trump supporter, a revival in which her character was an outspoken Trump supporter. But ABC argued it was good business to be in the Barr business.

The numbers bore that out. "Roseanne" was highest-rated new series of the season, ranking second among all entertainment programs. It was averaging 17.8 million viewers, and ABC needed those viewers.

The premiere drew so many eyeballs, President Trump tweeted his endorsement and praise: "Over 18 million people! And it was about us!"

There now will be voices on the right critical of ABC for dumping Barr. But when the fire damage was assessed Tuesday afternoon, it no longer was good to be in the Barr business.

Barr hardly is the first person fired from a series due to scandal. Jeffrey Tambor ("Transparent") and Kevin Spacey ("House of Cards") are among the top-billed stars dropped from acclaimed shows after allegations of sexual misconduct.

Nor is she the first to be fired for an out-of-bounds political attack. Comedian Kathy Griffin was fired from CNN after posting of video of herself holding what looked like the severed head of President Trump.

Barr, however, was headlining a series with ratings many times higher than "Transparent" and "House of Cards." There also will be those who will wonder why ABC executives pulled such a quick trigger for "Roseanne" but sat on their hands when Ryan Seacrest was accused of sexual misconduct before the "American Idol" return.

But, whatever their reasons, this was not a jubilant day for the Disney-ABC brass. The fire started by Barr not only cost her a sizable paycheck, it wiped away the jobs of everyone else working on the series.

Still, those colleagues were not complaining, at least not Tuesday, and not about ABC's decision.

Emmy Kenney, who plays the title character's grandchild on the show, tweeted, "The racist and distasteful comments from Roseanne are inexcusable . . . Bullies do not win. Ever."

Gilbert sent out another tweet when the cancellation was announced: "This is incredibly sad and difficult for all of us, as we've created a show that we believe in, are proud of, and that audiences love -- one that is separate and apart from the opinions and words of one cast member."

Such a waste, as Gilbert suggests, but this is what results from the combination of fire and recklessness: complete and utter waste.

This should have been the summer of triumph for Barr. She again was sitting at the top of her own prime-time world. Trace the origins of the fire that destroyed that world, and you find Barr clutching a box of matches.