Buy Photo The Unger family lawn in Royal Oak in December 2011. (Photo: Alexandra Bahou, DFP)Buy Photo

An old farmhouse turned holiday party house is up for sale in Royal Oak, listed at $475,000, according to The Delia Group realtors.

The house, located at 1713 N. Washington Ave., truly came alive around Christmas time, when it was decked with boughs of holly. It has played host to some Christmas parties so popular that passers-by would sneak in to join the festivities, said Mike Guido, a realtor who works for The Delia Group.

Ethlyn Unger, 73, the current owner of the home, says that she's lived there since 1978 and raised her eight children there, along with half the neighborhood kids as well, as their game room was quite popular.

"I always knew where my kids were," Unger said.

Warning, Memorial Day travelers: Lake Michigan still dangerously cold

More: Downtown Detroit bar's liquor license revoked after selling to minors

Unger also ran a licensed daycare for 28 years. Guido says that the Christmas parties the house was so famous for were mostly to help fund the daycare.

But Unger said that her husband loved Christmas. He'd put up the Christmas lights on Dec. 1 and wait until midnight on Dec. 31 to turn them off.

The house, built in 1924, is approximately 3,600 square feet, with an addition built by the previous owner. The "Christmas Room" was comprised of many pieces of the old Pfeiffer Brewery, including Detroit, ceiling, walls, flooring, light fixtures and fireplace.

There are five bedrooms that are described as bright and cozy, with some having hardwood, built-ins and rustic paneling, according to Delia. There are three bedrooms that are "retro-chic," adorned with classic pink and black tile work.

The house is a stellar entertainment spot, with an indoor-outdoor bar, shuffleboard table, pool table and "hot tub room."

Before Unger and her husband purchased the house, the previous owner was known for throwing Halloween parties. Unger's husband was known for his love of Christmas so much so that most of the kids thought of him as Santa Claus.

"My mail man told me that his sister in Thailand saw pictures of the house," Unger said.

Unger's husband passed away two days after Christmas last year. So Unger is now selling the house because she can't maintain it.

"It's hard to give up but, I am not a young chicken anymore," Unger said. "And to try to keep up a house this size is just more than I can do. And I'm honest about it."

For more information on the house, visit the realtor's website (registration required).

Contact Brandon Patterson: BPatterson2@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter: @iAmBrandonPatt

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2sbcqcv