Buy Photo Jim Turner, left, and Jordan Derus of Professional Movers deliver an upright piano Tuesday, May 29, 2018, to Holiday Market in Royal Oak. The street-piano movement, for a creative cultural outlet in Royal Oak, was spearheaded by Jason Gittinger the co-founder of The Detroit School of Rock and Pop Music in Royal Oak. (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

It can happen to the nicest of old pianos — to be suddenly disowned, then consigned to oblivion.

But how lucky for nine discarded uprights, getting a new lease on life in downtown Royal Oak.

Granted, they’re homeless — they’ll spend the summer outdoors. But each will have just enough overhead protection to stay dry, in reasonable tune and ready for street play, night or day, said Jason Gittinger, a former rock 'n' roll drummer who chairs the Royal Oak Commission for the Arts.

Gittinger supervised Tuesday’s delivery in Royal Oak of a truckload of old pianos, painted in zany designs last weekend by volunteers, and aimed at encouraging impromptu performances of all kinds while giving the downtown a communal feel.

“We want to encourage anyone to play, and that becomes a siren song for others to step up and gather around and smile,” Gittinger said after Tuesday’s first delivery was made right in front of his business — the Detroit School of Rock and Pop Music.

It was Gittinger, as czar of city arts, who suggested that Royal Oak needed not one or two street pianos, as found in many a downtown including Detroit's, but — well — eight last year and nine this summer. The one placed Tuesday at his business, 1109 S. Washington, is painted gold, prompting Gittinger to suggest a tune for would-be buskers: “24K Magic” by Bruno Mars.

In big cities around the world, as well as in downtown Detroit, Traverse City and Cleveland, cast-off pianos have found new lives as these so-called street pianos. The idea? Adding to the quirky charm of a walkable downtown. But nowhere is the effort playing at fortissimo like in Royal Oak.

CLOSE Jason Gittinger, co founder of The Detroit School of Rock and Pop Music in Royal Oak has inspired the Royal Oak Public Piano Project. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press

Amid Tuesday’s scorching heat, good-humored movers Jim Turner and Jordan Derus of ProfessionalMovers.com pushed an upright into position outside the downtown's sprawling Holiday Market. This one sported a painted rainbow and the words “Spread Positivity” as well as “Be Happy,” which had Gittinger suggesting it for the song “Holiday” by Madonna.

ProfessionalMovers.com not only donated its moving services, the company also opened its warehouse in Walled Lake for the recent paint-a-piano day, and before that it provided many of the pianos after customers gave them up, the company’s co-owner Andrew Androff said.

“The senior community is aging out of their homes and they give these pianos up when they move,” Androff said.

“Often, their kids are older and they don’t have the same attachment. In the past five or six years, we’ve seen a big increase in pianos available,” he said. The company had been giving its best orphaned pianos to employees for years, but now “this project in Royal Oak is perfect for us," Androff said.

Read more:

Industry figures confirm a nationwide trend of Americans owning far fewer conventional pianos and many more electronic keyboards. A century ago, long before radio, television and record players became ubiquitous, Americans bought more than 300,000 pianos a year, a figure that since has drooped by about 90%, according to PianoPricePoint.com and other industry sources.

Other outside locations in Royal Oak that will invite spontaneous ivory-ticklin’ and honky-tonkin’ are at two restaurants, a chocolate shop, the farmer’s market and a VFW hall that’s close to two microbreweries and a mini-distillery. (At Gayle's Chocolates, Gittinger recommends playing "You Sexy Thing" by Hot Chocolate, and at the downtown's pocket park called Eagle Plaza, he suggests "New Kid in Town" by the Eagles.)

The instruments add a dual vibe, both musical and visual, and at no cost to the city because everything was donated. But is this just a geeky promotional gimmick? Nope, more like an admirable public art form, said Kristie Zamora, coordinator of arts, culture and film for Oakland County. The presence of an old keyboard cloaked in zany colors can unleash more than a little communal magic, Zamora said.

“It's truly another way to enjoy a community. Music transcends all age groups," she said. And in this case, "it's free."

One regular last summer at the keyboard outside the Royal Oak Farmer’s Market was professional player Tommy Sklut, a featured entertainer at Royal Oak’s 526 Main, a popular dueling piano bar.

“I think it’s a really great thing that Royal Oak put these out,” said Sklut, 32, who lives in the city with his wife and two children.

“We go to the farmer’s market a lot and my kids like to hop up on the piano. My littlest will play a little tune and then our older one will play something and then I’ll get up there and do some boogie woogie or some New Orleans music,” Sklut said.

People invariably start gathering whenever he does it, Sklut said, adding: “It’s gotten to be just another fun thing about our town.”

Want more stories from southeast Oakland County? Join our Facebook group Woodward248 by Freep.com

Contact: blaitner@freepress.com



Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xpnKrj