Russia May Help China Create International Cosmonauts Rehabilitation Center



by Staff Writers



Moscow (Sputnik) May 18, 2018



Russian scientific organizations are ready to assist China and its partners in creating an international rehabilitation center for cosmonauts, as well as other infrastructure needed for developing space medicine and biology, a spokesman for the Institute of Biomedical Problems of the Russian Academy of Science told Sputnik.

"The IMBP [Institute of Biomedical Problems] is ready along with the Chinese side to create a rehabilitation facility for cosmonauts in Sanya in the Hainan province and to develop means and methods of rehabilitation in cooperation with the concerned Chinese organizations and specialists," Mark Belakovsky said.

The official added that the facility would provide an opportunity for rehabilitation of cosmonauts after space flights and a location for former cosmonauts and astronauts from all countries to spend their holidays in.

According to Belakovsky, several rounds of talks have already taken places on the issue both in China and in Russia.

In April, Tian Yulong, the secretary general of the China National Space Administration (CNSA), said during a conference in the US city of Colorado Springs that Beijing would like to strengthen cooperation with Moscow in the space-related issues.

Source: Sputnik News



Related Links

Roscosmos

The Chinese Space Program - News, Policy and Technology

China News from SinoDaily.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Beijing (XNA) May 14, 2018

