Russia not into American regional games



by Daniel J. Graeber



Washington (UPI) May 29, 2018



Poland has also received the support of a multinational NATO battalion under US command.

Some elements of a US tank brigade were deployed to Poland on a temporary basis in January 2017 as part of measures to reassure countries in the region bordering Russia.

According to the document published by Onet.pl, the Polish funds would be used to improve infrastructure ahead of the potential arrival of American soldiers.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov said that "the progressive expansion of NATO military structures near our borders... will not benefit in any way the security and stability on the continent" and will lead "to reciprocal measures by Russia to restore the balance (of power) each time it is violated".

The proposal published in the Polish media triggered an immediate response from Moscow.

Moscow's annexation of Crimea and involvement in the insurgency in eastern Ukraine have raised concerns among NATO member countries like Poland which border Russia about increased aggression.

Contacted by AFP, the defence ministry confirmed the "Proposal for a US Permanent Presence in Poland", which has been passed on to several governmental institutions, Congress and main think-tanks.

"Yes, we are interested in the presence of American forces in our country and we have submitted -- including to think tanks -- some options that we could offer if such decisions were adopted," Soloch said.

Pawel Soloch, head of the office of national security at the Polish presidency, had revealed in a television interview that a defence ministry "information document" showed that Poland could spend between $1.5 to $2 billion (1.3 to 1.7 billion euros) to help cover the cost of a US tank unit.

Warsaw (AFP) May 29, 2018 - Poland has a proposal to welcome a permanent deployment of US troops to the country, including helping to defray the costs, the defence ministry confirmed Tuesday, amid fears over recent aggression by neighbouring Russia.

From increasing sanctions pressure to energy leverage, the Kremlin has the impression Washington is up to political games in the region, an aide said.

Speaking at the start of the year, Polish Defense Minister Mariusz Błaszczak said he was expecting more U.S. troops in a country on the edge of the Russian sphere of influence.

"I guarantee that this presence could be a success not only for Poland, but also for Central and Eastern Europe," he said.

U.S. interests in Poland extend beyond defense into the energy sector. Central and Eastern European countries like Poland have few resources of their own, leaving them dependent on Russia for energy supplies.

The U.S. State Department has said it believes U.S. natural resources could contain Russian leverage. U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., meanwhile, is pushing his Small Scale LNG Access Act, which would facilitate the approval process for low-volume liquefied natural gas projects in the United States. That could extend the U.S. energy reach into the region.

In November, Polish Oil and Gas Co., known commonly as PGNiG, signed a five-year contract to secure LNG from the Sabine Pass terminal in Louisiana, the first mid-term contract of its kind.

Yuri Ushakov, an aide to Russian President Vladimir Putin, said Washington was trying to push its agenda on the region.

"I have an impression we are being forced to play American football, but let us be frank that very few know how to play that game and, what is most important, far from everybody wishes to play it," he was quoted by Russian news agency TASS as saying.

Testifying last week, Congressman Ted Poe, R-Texas, the chairman of a terrorism subcommittee in the House, said the United States could use its energy as a "force multiplier" for U.S. leverage.

Ushakov's comments mirror those from Mario Mehran, the CEO of Wintershall, who said U.S. pressure on Russia could be a tacit way to advance U.S. economic interests in the European energy market.

"Europe must not let itself become a geopolitical football," he told UPI last year. "The framework conditions for the energy cooperation between Russia and Europe are determined by the European countries themselves -- and not by third-party countries."

Austrian energy company OMV echoed that sentiment in December when it said it was an energy company interested in "business, not geopolitics."

Both companies have a role in plans by Russian energy company Gazprom to twin the Nord Stream natural gas pipeline through the Baltic Sea to Germany. That project, and the company that leads it, have faced pressure from the U.S. government.

Latvia convicts ex-railway worker of spying for Russia

Riga (AFP) May 29, 2018 - A Latvian court on Tuesday convicted a former railway worker of spying for Russia, sentencing him to 18 months behind bars for sharing classified information on NATO troops and heavy equipment being moved by rail.

Aleksandrs Krasnopjorovs, an ethnic Russian and former Soviet Red Army soldier who served in Afghanistan during the 1980s, worked for Latvian state railways and had access to its network of surveillance cameras.

He was found guilty of recording videos of NATO troops and cargo being moved by rail -- images considered to be classified -- and then sending them to contacts in Russia.

Krasnopjorovs pleaded not guilty and his lawyer vowed to appeal the verdict.

Latvia hosts one of four NATO battle groups deployed to the three Baltic states and Poland to reinforce the alliance's eastern flank, particularly since Russia's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014.

Krasnopjorovs made the recordings between October 2015 and September 2016 when troops from Canada, Poland, United States and other NATO member countries arrived in Latvia along with heavy equipment that was transported mostly by rail.

Krasnopjorovs, who lost his railway job after being arrested in late 2016, spent more than a year in pre-trial detention and so will now only be required to serve three months of the sentence he was handed on Tuesday.

Along with the jail time, the court also sentenced him to 60 hours of community service and 18 months probation, plus covering the court expenses. He was also found guilty of possessing explosives.

The conviction is the first of its kind after Latvia tightened legislation on what constitutes espionage and treason or terrorist activity in the wake of Crimea's annexation.

A Baltic eurozone and NATO state, Latvia has a large ethnic Russian minority accounting for about a quarter of its 1.9 million people.



Related Links

Learn about the Superpowers of the 21st Century at SpaceWar.com

Learn about nuclear weapons doctrine and defense at SpaceWar.com





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Warsaw (AFP) May 27, 2018

