The recent commitments didn’t make national headlines. Just like Steve Pikiell’s first two seasons as Rutgers’ men’s basketball coach weren’t a resounding success.

But they were both signs of progress — much-needed steps in the right direction.

While Pikiell’s 30-37 record might not overwhelm, and the 6-30 mark in the Big Ten certainly is in need of improvement, the last time Rutgers produced back-to-back seasons of 15 wins prior to the past two was 2009-11.

To the same point, while a pair of three-star recruits choosing to stay home isn’t necessarily the stuff that will lead to sellouts at the RAC, it is a clear indication of the arrow pointing up. It gives the Scarlet Knights a local flavor, no easy feat in New Jersey, which sees its best players frequently leave the state for college, and for a program that has seemingly always struggled to recruit in its fertile backyard.

Last week, highly regarded three-star guard Paul Mulcahy of state powerhouse Gill St. Bernard’s verbally committed to Pikiell’s 2019 class. The 2018 group includes another three-star New Jersey recruit, Don Bosco Prep’s Ron Harper Jr., who is the son of five-time NBA champion Ron Harper.

“When they have success, other kids will see that,” Pikiell said in a phone interview. “Kids [in New Jersey] are starting to realize we’re a viable option.”

The well-rounded, 6-foot-5 Mulcahy was chased by Northwestern, Seton Hall, Virginia Tech, and Boston College, but opted for Rutgers. In the video in which he announced his decision on Twitter, Mulcahy said he was “taking a road less traveled.” Rutgers was the pass-first guard’s first scholarship offer and he rewarded the Scarlet Knights’ consistency.

As for the 6-foot-6 Harper, who will be a freshman this year, he was a late bloomer who didn’t play big-time AAU basketball. But Rutgers zeroed in on him early. And had the sharpshooting wing not signed in the early period, he may have exploded. Like Mulcahy, Harper didn’t feel the need to go somewhere else. He believed Rutgers offered everything he was looking for.

Both have a lot in common, as arguably underrated prospects coming from winning programs. Harper’s Don Bosco Prep team reached the New Jersey Tournament of Champions final in March, with Harper scoring 33 points in the title game loss to Roselle Catholic.

“I think it’s significant,” said Jay Gomes, the publisher of NJHoops.com, and the premier prep talent evaluator in the state. “I don’t know if they turn [in-state recruiting] around by themselves. It’s a huge first step.

“Sometimes coaches will [shy away from] recruiting local kids. If they don’t work out, don’t play [a lot], a coach won’t send another kid to them. But if it works, it’s great. They have name recognition going in, fans like to see local kids do well. I think it’s important, and both of these kids can do well.”

It doesn’t mean Rutgers will start putting a fence around New Jersey. The elite prospects, the McDonald’s All-American, five-star types, probably will always more often than not opt to leave the Garden State. But as Seton Hall has done with quality in-state players such as Ismael Sanogo and Myles Powell, Rutgers needs to do the same — getting the next level of player, the four-year, building-block type.

That can happen.

“Like anything, you have to make sure you get kids to develop and graduate and get better,” Pikiell said, when asked how to make Rutgers a popular destination for in-state kids.

The hope in Piscataway is Harper and Mulcahy are the start of that.