Saudi Arabian Government-owned diversified chemicals firm Sabic has formed a new joint venture (JV) with ExxonMobil to advance the $7.3bn development of a 1.8 million tonne ethane cracker in San Patricio County, Texas, US.

Known as the Gulf Coast Growth Ventures project, the facility will also include a monoethylene glycol unit and two polyethylene units.

The collaboration is the third JV between Sabic and ExxonMobil in Saudi Arabia, with the other two located in Kemya, Jubail, and Yanpet, Yanbu.



The project is expected to generate 600 new, permanent jobs and around 3,500 indirect and induced jobs during operations.

In addition, the partners are expected to employ 6,000 workers during the peak of construction.

Sabic vice-chairman and CEO Yousef Al-Benyan said: “We look forward to the next phase of the project, which supports not only our goals for global diversification, but also supports Saudi Vision 2030.

“The project will create value not only for both of our companies, but for the surrounding communities through the creation of jobs and economic growth.”

“In addition, we are proud of the role the project will play in enhancing the economic profile of San Patricio County, Texas.”

The project is in line with Sabic’s strategy to focus on geographical diversification, but has yet to receive the necessary environmental permit.

Once the permitting process is complete, the partners will undertake construction of the project in a bid to commence operations at the plant by 2022.

Sabic stated in a stock exchange filing that engineering and construction works will start in the second quarter of this year.

ExxonMobil Chemical Company president John Verity said: “The project will create value not only for both of our companies, but for the surrounding communities through the creation of jobs and economic growth.”

Amec Foster Wheeler is the project’s main engineering, procurement, and construction contractor.

In August last year, construction, fabrication, and maintenance contractor Bay was selected to carry out civil and site maintenance work on the project site.