The Chicago Teachers Union released an online ad Wednesday slamming Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s handling of education, drawing attention to school closings and the departure of two previous Chicago Public Schools chiefs amid scandal since he took office.

The 30-second ad, titled “Same Old Boss,” lists several of Emanuel’s CPS CEOs, calling them the “teachers strike guy,” the “ethics violator” and “the convict” in reference to major CPS scandals during the mayor’s tenure.

“Their biggest achievement? Closing 60+ schools in black and brown neighborhoods,” it says.

Referring to Janice Jackson, who became the district’s leader earlier this year after Forrest Claypool’s resignation amid allegations of a cover-up, the ad says, “A new CEO? Whatever. But a new mayor would be much better.”

CTU Vice President Jesse Sharkey in a statement said Emanuel “is trying to spin his deplorable education record to his benefit” and the ad aims to “set the record straight.”

“Emanuel controls who sits on his rubber stamp board and who calls the shots in our schools. He has hired lackeys and crooks to engineer policies that harm our students and the people who educate them,” Sharkey said. “He’s hired yet another new CEO. But a new CEO won’t cut it. What we need is a new mayor — one who actually cares about our students’ educations instead of gutting their schools, turning his back on their parents and sabotaging their neighborhoods.”

Emanuel campaign spokesman Pete Giangreco declined to comment. Emanuel on Wednesday announced a plan to offer free full-day public pre-school to Chicago’s 4-year-old children.

The ad marks the first of what is likely many attacks on Emanuel’s record by the teachers union. The union said it has no plans “at this time” to air the ad on television.

The union’s attack follows a commercial run by Progress Chicago, a nonprofit with close ties to Emanuel, that emphasized academic improvement at the embattled district and highlighted Jackson. The Chicago Tribune reported Tuesday that the nonprofit is bankrolled by three unions that are major contributors to the mayor's campaign and Emanuel’s No. 1 campaign donor and close confidant Michael Sacks, the wealthy chairman and CEO of investment firm GCM Grosvenor. Those four donors, in recent weeks alone, have given more than $1 million to the mayor's campaign fund, records show.

In the ad, Jackson says CPS is “becoming a national leader in academic improvement, with more kids than ever graduating and going to college.”

Sam Hobert, Progress Chicago’s executive director, said his organization doesn’t comment on or participate in political activity for or against any candidate. He said his organization’s ads are aimed at getting the message out that CPS has improved.

“It’s important to reaffirm that recognition as a national leader in urban education when we are still fighting to maintain the equitable funding formula for Illinois schools that brings an additional $450 million to CPS annually,” Hobert said. “There is too much on the line for us to stand idly by, and we intend to highlight the impact that the education funding has had and the progress being made by (Jackson), our students, educators, parents, and community members to Chicagoans and people across the state."

But CTU paints a harsher picture of the school district under Emanuel, noting several controversies and turnover at CPS over the past eight years. The ad refers to CPS having five CEOs in six years, though Emanuel has hired four CEOS with two interim leaders.

Nancy Stone / Chicago Tribune Mayor Rahm Emanuel and former CPS CEO Forrest Claypool at Edward Bouchet International Elementary School in the South Shore neighborhood Monday Aug. 22, 2016. A Chicago Teachers Union ad released Wednesday criticizes the mayor for recent CPS woes. (Nancy Stone/ Chicago Tribune) Mayor Rahm Emanuel and former CPS CEO Forrest Claypool at Edward Bouchet International Elementary School in the South Shore neighborhood Monday Aug. 22, 2016. A Chicago Teachers Union ad released Wednesday criticizes the mayor for recent CPS woes. (Nancy Stone/ Chicago Tribune) (Nancy Stone / Chicago Tribune)

Claypool left CPS in December after engaging in what the district’s inspector general said was a “full-blown cover-up” where he “repeatedly lied” to investigators by denying he asked an outside attorney to alter a bill for legal advice.

Claypool was the second consecutive schools chief under Emanuel to resign amid controversy, as his predecessor, Barbara Byrd-Bennett, was eventually sent to prison for her part in a kickback scheme.

Byrd-Bennett was sentenced to 4 1/2 years in prison for scheming to collect hundreds of thousands of dollars in kickbacks in return for steering lucrative contracts to SUPES Academy, an education consulting firm where she had formerly worked.

Earlier this month, the state took over sweeping authority to supervise CPS special education programs after it found the Emanuel administration’s 2016 overhaul of special ed violated a swath of federal laws and regulations.

CTU and Emanuel have been in conflict for essentially his entire tenure as mayor, including the union’s strike in 2012. The union’s president, Karen Lewis, was seen by many as the strongest challenger to Emanuel in 2015, but she was diagnosed with a cancerous brain tumor that fall and announced she would not run.

gpratt@chicagotribune.com

Twitter: @royalpratt

RELATED:

Advocacy ads featuring Emanuel’s schools chief stir controversy in Chicago mayor’s race »

CPS budget bump offers cash for salary hikes, special education and shrinking schools »

Editorial: Why this Chicago mayoral election could be Emanuel’s toughest yet »