BY ETHAN KASSEL

San Ramon Valley 44, Monte Vista 33

Tuesday

Amazingly, even without three starters, Monte Vista (9-8, 2-2 EBAL) hung with the Wolves and could have even won the game if not for an uncharacteristically poor performance at the free throw line. The Mustangs went 14-31 from the charity stripe, and with each missed free throw, SRV coach Brian Botteen was able to let his team get more and more physical, knowing they could foul the Mustangs without repercussions.

San Ramon Valley (8-9, 2-2) couldn’t pull away until the final moments of the game. An 11-3 lead after one quarter was trimmed to four points before the Wolves finished the first half on a 10-3 run, capped off by 6-10 senior Jake Bennett’s buzzer-beating putback. Bennett finished with nine points and seven rebounds.

The lead stretched all the way to 35-19 with 4:44 left in the third, but the host Mustangs closed out the quarter on an 8-0 run to leave room for drama during the final period. Even during that 8-0 run, the Mustangs failed to cash in on numerous opportunities at the free throw line. They went 6-12 at the line during said run, and missed three of four free throws when an SRV player was called for a technical foul to go with a regular shooting foul.

More of the same problems plagued the Mustangs in the fourth. Though the lead hovered around ten points for the majority of the final period, MV’s chances to close the gap went by the wayside as the team missed six of eight free throws in the quarter and shot just 11-24 from the line in the second half.

Josh Warren, a 6-3 sophomore, led the Wolves with 13 points, seven of which came in the first quarter. As a team, San Ramon Valley shot 9-13 at the line. For a team that has found itself in close games throughout the year, that free throw performance will need to be emulated in order for the Wolves to keep winning.

As painful as the loss was for Monte Vista, there was a silver lining.

Because of injuries, the Mustangs started four juniors and a sophomore, giving them valuable experience that will pay off throughout the remainder of this season and next year. Just two seniors saw any playing time until the final minutes of the game. Kris Bortz, a 6-7 sophomore, led the Mustangs with 12 points and 12 rebounds.

Monte Vista, a team already missing top scorer Austin Fadal (knee) for the season enterednight’s crosstown rivalry game against San Ramon Valley without starters Jon Salas (knee) and Ashton Rust (ankle). Those injuries were too much for the Mustangs to bear, as San Ramon Valley won on Monte Vista’s home court for the first time since 2011.