By StoryStudio

The San Jose Earthquakes may have lost the friendly match against Club León of Mexico’s Liga MX football league when Landon Donovan scored the winning goal on March 24, but the team won a more enduring prize before the match had even started. Mobilitie LLC’s vice president of network deployment William Gable and director of wireless solutions Ziad Khoury presented a $15,000 check to Earthquakes’ Chief Operating Officer Jared Shawlee during the pre-game festivities.

But why would Mobilitie make such a generous gift to a profitable athletic team? It’s part of an effort to support over a dozen local non-profits that are dedicated to serving San Jose and Bay Area youth.

“At Mobilitie, it’s very important for us to give back to the community,” said president and CEO Christos Karmis. “The goals of our partnership with the San Jose Earthquakes, and with other MLS teams, are to help the youth of our communities stay connected with family, friends, teammates, and other social support groups that are so important to their growth and development.”

At Mobilitie, it’s very important… (to) help the youth of our communities stay connected with family, friends, teammates, and other social support groups that are so important to their growth and development

Building strong relationships between the youth of our communities and professionals enhances a young person’s perception of their abilities and strengths and fosters their self-esteem. Knowing this, the Earthquakes decided to use some of Mobilitie’s generous donation to invite 500 young soccer fans who wouldn’t normally get the chance to go to a professional match to opening day at the Avaya Stadium in San Jose.

“The Earthquakes are always striving to make Avaya Stadium the most inclusive venue for all Bay Area sports fans,” said Shawlee. “Mobilitie’s contribution helped over 500 underserved children attend our match on opening day, and we’re all very appreciative.”

The Earthquakes are always striving to make Avaya Stadium the most inclusive venue for all Bay Area sports fans

Underserved children often face challenges in terms of social and economic integration. Responsible institutions like Mobilitie and the San Jose Earthquakes help to ensure that these children receive the attention needed to reach their true potential. The relationships that the 500 children who attended the match at Avaya Stadium have with adults who aren’t their parents strengthens their motivation to work hard in school or turn their love of soccer into something more than a hobby. The long-term positive impact of their trip to Avaya Stadium to see the Earthquakes play on opening day will manifest for all 500 of those children for years to come.

The match was an exciting one to witness. Facing off against Minnesota United, the 18,000 fans in attendance were able to see star player Danny Hoesen score two goals, as well as one from Valeri “Vako” Qazaishvili in a match that the Earthquakes won 3-2 at Avaya Stadium.

Many of the 500 children in attendance at the Earthquakes match that day live in neighborhoods where exposure to drugs, gangs, and violence is common. Thanks to Mobilitie and the Earthquakes providing a positive experience at the soccer match, these children see that different futures are available to them.

Curious about Mobilitie? As the industry leader in optimizing wireless networks of sports stadiums and other high-capacity entertainment venues, Mobilitie provides wireless network solutions to MLS stadiums across the country, including Avaya Stadium in San Jose, the home of the Earthquakes. Mobilitie has similar partnerships with the home stadiums of the Los Angeles Galaxy, Real Salt Lake, and Chicago Fire, as well as the soon-to-open home of the Minnesota United FC. Visit mobility.com for more info