Cedarburg, WI –-(Ammoland.com)- The SASP (Scholastic Action Shooting Program) announced today that Hogdgon Powder Company is a Bronze Sponsor of their program for 2018!

“Hodgdon is proud to partner with SASP as it is one of the country’s premier rifle and pistol youth shooting organizations,” said Chris Hodgdon, owner of Hodgdon Powder Company. “We are pleased that SASP’s number one priority is to teach their athletes responsible firearm safety under trained and certified adult coaches.” “For the last 70 years, Hodgdon Powder, a family-owned company, has grown into the preeminent supplier of gunpowder and blackpowder to handloading and muzzleloading enthusiasts,” said Rick Leach, SASP's National Director, “and SASP is honored that they trust and support our program,”

About Hodgdon Powder Company

Established in 1947 by Bruce and Amy Hodgdon, today, sons Bob and JB have grown Hodgdon Powder Company into the largest US supplier of smokeless, blackpowder and black powder substitute propellants. The company distributes gunpowder under the Hodgdon®, IMR®, Winchester®, Goex® and VihtaVuori® brands.

Learn more about the brands at these websites – www.Hodgdon.com, www.IMRPowder.com, www.WWPowder.com or www.GoexPowder.com.

Are you or your company interested in being part of or supporting the largest competitive youth shooting program in the world? Then contact Rick Leach, SASP National Director at [email protected] or check out our 2018 Media Guide at: https://sssfonline.org/about-sssf/advertise-us/.

About Scholastic Shooting Sports Foundation

The Scholastic Shooting Sports Foundation (SSSF) is 501(c)(3) public charity responsible for all aspects of the Scholastic Clay Target Program (SCTP) and Scholastic Action Shooting Program (SASP) across the United States. SCTP and SASP are youth development programs in which adult coaches and other volunteers use shooting sports to teach and to demonstrate sportsmanship, responsibility, honesty, ethics, integrity, teamwork, and other positive life skills. SCTP was developed as a program of the National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF) until the SSSF was created in 2007 to operate the SCTP. In 2012, SSSF created the SASP and became the managing foundation of both programs.

For more information about SSSF, visit www.sssfonline.com.