CLOSE New York state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced his resignation after four women accused him of physical abuse. Schneiderman had taken on high-profile roles as a women's issues advocate and an opponent of Trump administration policies. (May 8) AP

Now disgraced former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman spoke Feb. 12, 2018, as he filed a lawsuit against the Weinstein Company over sexual-abuse allegations. Schneiderman resigned Monday, May 7, 2018, over allegations he abused four women (Photo: Attorney General's Office Flickr account)

Three hours: That's how long it took New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman to throw in the towel after the New Yorker magazine published a story alleging that Schneiderman had slapped, choked or spit on four women with whom he was involved.

How come Michigan politicians can't muster that kind of decisiveness when they become embroiled in a sex scandal? Imagine the money taxpayers would have saved if Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, former state lawmakers Todd Courser and Cindy Gamrat, or former U.S. Rep. John Conyers had Schneiderman's talent for recognizing a losing hand as soon as it was dealt?

If we believe the meticulous reporting two prize-winning journalists published in the New Yorker magazine Monday, Schneiderman is a man of many faces: a crusading champion of battered woman; a fearless prosecutor determined to make sure President Donald Trump couldn't use his pardon power to muzzle critical witnesses in the Mueller investigation; a loving family man Schneiderman's ex-wife describes as "someone of the highest character"; and a drunken serial abuser who assaulted and showered abuse on the women he dated.

But it was the veteran prosecutor whose instincts prevailed Monday after New Yorker staff writers Jane Mayer and Ronan Farrow published their explosive account of Schneiderman's alleged attacks on four women, three of whom agreed to be identified and speak to the magazine on the record.

Dickerson: Confessions of a recovering elitist

More: 10-5-1: A Free Press campaign to boost voter turnout this August

Schneiderman tendered his resignation the same evening, shattering the record previously held by former New York Gov. Elliot Spitzer, who resigned a decade ago in the wake of a prostitution scandal aborning. The attorney general's decision stunned supporters and detractors alike, but was an easy call for a man trained, like the ex-prosecutor Spitzer, to size up the strength of an opponent's case.

As delineated by Mayer and Farrow, the case against Schneiderman was airtight: The accusers were too numerous, their allegations too specific, and the fact pattern revealed by their independent accounts too convincing to leave room for any credible alternative narrative. With every career-preserving defense disabled by the strength of the New Yorker's initial assault, Schneiderman took the only escape route left to him, an emergency exit to ignominy.

Realism, in record time

IMike Thompson: Back to the primary: Vote this August

Nancy Kaffer: To break transit gridlock, raise RTA millage to fund buses and roads

There was, inevitably, the obligatory insistence that the allegations against Schneiderman the bedroom bully should not tarnish the legacy of Schneiderman the public servant: "These allegations are unrelated to my professional conduct or the operations of the office," the departing AG insisted in a statement released by his office.

But that was wishful thinking of a high order. While he may have been careful not to slap or choke anyone in his employ, or to abuse his victims in a government office building, Schneiderman's conduct invites the suspicion that his public advocacy for victims of abuse (including the sponsorship, when he was a state lawmaker, of a bill criminalizing some of the specific acts his accusers allege) was designed to camouflage, and to discredit whispers about, his private behavior.

E is for evidence

The most dismaying thing about this episode may be the suspicion voiced by some liberal apologists that Schneiderman was the victim of a conspiracy, set up by political opponents determined to undermine his credibility in an anticipated showdown with Trump or Trump subordinates targeted by special counsel Robert Mueller.

This is powerful evidence that Trump's incessant attacks on journalists and evidence-based journalism has poisoned the judgment of people on both ends of the political spectrum, reducing even the most responsible and carefully documented reporting to mere speculation.

It is always appropriate to be skeptical of accusations against anyone in the public eye. But any insinuation that Schneiderman's implosion was, at bottom, a political hit job is a triumph of Trumpian paranoia. There is no scintilla of evidence that either the attorney general's accusers nor the experienced journalists who vetted the accusers' accounts were pawns in a character assassination plot.

Nor is it credible to argue that Scheiderman is the merely latest victim of a #metoo movement run amok. The violence of which he is accused is as ghastly as any misconduct alleged in era that began with Harvey Weinstein's exposure.

In sum, two journalists with sterling track records for accurate and ethical reporting have assembled overwhelming evidence that New York's top law enforcement official was, at least in his off hours, a substance-abusing monster who posed a physical threat to women who were attracted to him.

Even Schneiderman was astute enough to recognize that, whatever good he has done is his life, the disclosure of that hitherto secret dimension has destroyed, at least for the foreseeable future, his capacity for public service.

Brian Dickerson is the editorial page editor of the Detroit Free Press. Contact him at bdickerson@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rubUpz