The school bus driver charged in a crash on Interstate 80 in Morris County earlier this month that left a Paramus middle school teacher and a 10-year-old student dead was released from jail Wednesday as he awaits trial.

Hudy Muldrow Sr., 77, of Jersey City, was released by Morris County Superior Court Judge Stephen Taylor on the condition that he turn in his driver's license and check in with pre-trial services twice a month.

New Jersey no longer has a cash-bail system. The decision whether a defendant remains in jail pending trial is now in the hands of a judge.

Muldrow, an employee of the Paramus Board of Education for 34 years, is charged with two counts of vehicular homicide, commonly known as death by auto, in the May 17 crash with a dump truck that killed Miranda Vargas, 10, and teacher Jennifer Williamson, 51.

Miranda Vargas' father, Jeovany, and Williamson's husband, Kevin Kennedy, put their heads down and clutched their hands together as Taylor read aloud the provisions of Muldrow's release.

Muldrow sat expressionless beside his attorney, Matthew Reisig, for the duration of the two-hour, 30-minute detention hearing. He did not speak.

Muldrow faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in state prison if convicted of both counts of vehicular homicide -- a sentence that Chief Assistant Prosecutor Matthew Troiano said could keep Muldrow behind bars until his death.

"He could die in prison," Troiano told Taylor. "He more than anyone else has a motive to flee."

PHOTOS from the driver's court appearance

Authorities say Muldrow missed an exit on Interstate 80 and later attempted to make an illegal U-turn while driving 44 passengers from East Brook Middle School in Paramus to Waterloo Village in Byram Township on a school trip.

The bus was struck by a dump truck traveling in the center lane of I-80 in Mount Olive. It was ripped apart and landed on the center median of the highway.

Muldrow has received eight speeding tickets and had his license suspended 14 times between 1975 and 2017, according to state motor vehicle records.

Troiano focused on Muldrow's driving record to show Taylor that Muldrow is a danger to the public. He called Muldrow's record "disturbing" and "atrocious," and said Muldrow's behavior in attempting to make a u-turn on I-80 was "reckless."

"That type of conduct is so foreign to the way we drive on the roads," he said of Muldrow's driving maneuver.

Reisig said his client's driving record was "above average."

He assured Taylor that Muldrow will never drive with passengers for employment purposes for the rest of his life.

"His career with a passenger-endorsement (license) is over," Reisig said.

Muldrow, a father of 10 who has a clean criminal record, is a law-abiding citizen who attends church every Sunday, Reisig said.

Prosecutors initially said Muldrow lives in Woodland Park but Reisig said he's resided in Jersey City since 2003. Muldrow is married but is currently separated from his wife and lives with his longtime girlfriend.

Willie Clark, a pastor at Mt. Zion Baptist Church in Jersey City told reporters last week that Muldrow is "sad" but doesn't believe he did anything wrong.

His son, Hudy Muldrow Jr., has said that his father is a "good driver."

Alex Napoliello may be reached at anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @alexnapoNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips