By Laura Mooney

USA – -(Ammoland.com)- I never thought I’d say this, but I’m hooked on the AR-15 rifle!

It’s a fun firearm to shoot. It's accurate, dependable, and doesn't have a lot of recoil.

Until recently, I’d been sharing my husband’s AR-15. It didn’t take long before I wanted one of my own, and I am now the happy owner of a Sig Sauer AR-15. It’s the SIGM400 SRP model, which has no bells and whistles…yet.

One of the best things about ARs is how easily they can be customized with a wide assortment of accessories. And who doesn’t like accessories?

My first order of business will be to buy a good optic so that I can hit my targets. The AR-15 is great for target-shooting, which is an easy job for an optic. But this modern sporting rifle is also very versatile, and there are other shooting activities that I’d like to pursue. I’ve enjoyed doing some predator hunting with my husband. We mainly hunt coyotes, but we’d like to expand to other predators and possibly feral hogs when we can get the opportunity in other parts of the country. Events like 3-gun competitions also look like a fun challenge. Of course, home defense and tactical purposes are very important uses as well.

With all this in mind, my AR-15 optic will need to adapt easily to a variety of activities. Some refer to the type of setup I’m looking for as a multi-range optic. It wouldn’t be practical, (for me) to have a different rifle and scope setup for each activity…although it might be something to dream about!

As with so many buying decisions, there’s a lot to choose from and it can be confusing. I’ve done some research and tried out a variety of shooting-optic styles. I’ve talked to friends, associates, hunters, gunsmiths, and outfitters. Of course everyone has their own preferences.

Choosing an optic is going to take some thoughtful analysis, so I’ve put together the following checklist of features that I’d like to see in an AR shooting optic platform:

Close, two-eyes open target acquisition with unlimited eye relief.

Clear low-light performance glass.

Adjustable brightness in an illuminated model.

Medium- to long-range capability as well as a 1x system.

Engineered for the .223 round.

Easy-to-use reticle.

Night vision compatible (for possible predator night hunts).

Easy to mount and adjust.

Long battery life.

Lightweight.

Durable.

Accurate.

Cool looking (hey, might as well look good too!).

Affordability is important, but not critical. A dependable platform with great glass is more important to me.

My first and upcoming review will be the popular Trijicon ACOG. This is a fixed-power scope so it doesn’t fit my initial needs for a multiple power optic, but you’ll see the unique features that make this a viable option for me. Besides, this is one my husband uses and loves.

My second review will be the EOTech reflex sight with 3X magnifier. This battle-proven optic is a great option because of the quick target acquisition and the ability to magnify the target.

I hope you’ll join me in my search for the “ Best AR-15 Optic ” This is going to be fun!

About Laura Mooney

Suddenly I realized that I was missing a very important safety skill. How would I be able to protect myself or those around me if I didn’t know how to handle a firearm? That aha moment has motivated me to move beyond my comfort zone and embrace a lifestyle that includes gun ownership and shooting competence. Embracing Life, Love, and Adventure as a Girl with a Gun ~ Laura Mooney