By StoryStudio

San Francisco has a myriad of unforgettable sights and sounds that make the senses tingle. Even those of us with our eyes and ears glued to our smartphones while playing games have to press pause so that we can snap a shot of the Eon 75 mural, or take a video as the sun dips behind the horizon on Crissy Field. And while there are a million and one smartphones that have the capability to adequately capture those moments, there’s a new phone on the market that will make sure you’re bringing your A-Game to life. The Sony Xperia XZ2 is redefining excellence in a phone’s audio, visual, gaming, and camera capabilities.

Photos

The next time you’re at Tartine and having the perfect SF Sunday brunch, the photos you take with an Xperia XZ2 for your Instagram feed will be on-point. Those off-the-chain morning buns will be seen in a completely different way, thanks to the new advanced Motion Eye camera that the Xperia XZ2 has integrated into the phone. It produces photos with outstanding low-light image quality because of its memory stacked image sensor. Your followers who didn’t wake up early enough to brave the line at Tartine will want to lick their phone screens for a taste of the morning bun’s delicious orange glaze, brought to fantastic life by your photo. If you want to really rub it in, check out the Xperia XZ2’s 3D Creator. You can take the morning bun, scan it, turn it into a 3D avatar, and then share the full 3D image of it on social media. This feature will also turn the heads of those who want to turn a standard selfie into a 3D model of themselves – and let’s face it: who doesn’t?

Hey Verizon Customers!

Sony Xperia XZ2 Compact is now available to Verizon customers. Get the latest Sony technologies packed into a smartphone that fits in your pocket.

Videos

This year, you can turn a trip to Outside Lands into your very own music documentary. Performances by Beck, Bon Iver or Florence and the Machine can be caught with incredible contrast and true-to-life color. That’s because the Xperia XZ2 records in 4K HDR – a feat that usually requires a much bigger camera. This is ground-breaking technology for a mobile phone. Beck’s guitar riffs and Florence’s colorful costumes will never look sharper.

The Xperia XZ2 will also come in handy if you’re hitting up SPiN for a couple games of ping pong and want to record a dramatic match. The new advanced Motion Eye camera records super slow motion in HD or Full HD. The greatest table tennis matches that you and your friends have ever played can now be captured in the most thrilling way possible. These videos will prove that you and your bros can turn a mundane afternoon into an epic battle, thanks to this new recording capability.

Audio

The next time you and your friends are heading to Dolores Park for a game of corn-hole, you won’t have to bring along any cumbersome speakers. The audio on the Xperia XZ2 is equipped with new sound-enhancing technologies: High-Resolution Audio and LDAC. Thanks to these and other new features, the musical experience is exceptional. Even compressed files sound better, because one of the new features lifts them up so they’re closer to the original recordings. The music won’t be muffled by the crowds. You can even turn the music up and down to throw your opponents off their game.

Visuals







The Feels

Who doesn’t like to play a game on their phone while sipping on a delicious cup of Blue Bottle’s finest? Now, you’ll have to be careful not to spill a drop as you play. Games take on a new sound and feel because of Xperia XZ2’s dynamic vibration system. Games will be pulsing, pounding and pumping in your hand as you play, because of this new system. It analyzes audio data according the game sound effects, which offers more defined haptics.

The haptics will also come in handy when your phone is buried deep inside your backpack or bag. The sounds and vibrations coming off the phone mean you’ll never miss a notification again – unless you want to.

With Sony’s new Xperia XZ2, you can feel, see and hear things like never before. What are you waiting for?