Louisiana (Ammoland.com)- Here is some news you won't find in the mainstream media. Again this week, responsible gun owners defend themselves and the people they love.

Self-defense instructor Andee Reardon joins the Self Defense Gun Stories Podcast to look at three new examples. Were these gun owners lucky, or were they trained and prepared? What can we learn from their experience? Listen and find out. (14-minute audio)

All three victims survived lethal attacks because they had a gun.

You got a call from your mom. She is out of town but the security cameras noticed some motion in the front yard and called her smartphone. She recognized her ex-boyfriend creeping around her house and your mom called police. She also called you. The police came out, but didn’t find her ex-boyfriend.

Later, you hear a crash from the front of the house. You walk into the hallway to see mom’s ex-boyfriend heading for the bedroom where your younger brother and sister sleep. You shout and shoot the intruder. Now he runs.

You call police..again. They catch the intruder a few blocks away and take him to the hospital.

It is early in the morning and your shop is already open. A customer walks up and puts a bag on the counter. Then he demands the money from the cash register. You back away and the robber tries to pick up the entire cash register. That doesn’t work and the robber pushes you.

There are other customers in the store. You draw your gun and shoot the robber. Now he runs outside.

You call police. They find the robber sitting at a nearby gas station. He is arrested and taken to the hospital with a gunshot wound to the leg.

You don’t ride any longer, so you want to sell your motorcycle. You find a buyer and agree to meet at a nearby parking lot just after work. It is still light out. You meet the buyer and his friend. Both men are in their early 20s. They like the bike. You ask for the cash before you sign over the title and bill of sale.

That is when the buyer draws a handgun and demands the keys. You draw your gun and shoot the robber in the neck. He drops his gun and falls to the ground. The other robber runs. You call police.

The robber is transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries. Both robbers are charged with aggravated assault and aggravated robbery.

(14 minute audio)

About Rob Morse

Rob writes about gun rights at Ammoland, at Clash Daily and on his SlowFacts blog. He hosts the Self Defense Gun Stories Podcast and co-hosts the Polite Society Podcast. Rob is an NRA pistol instructor and combat handgun competitor.

Contact Andee Reardon at EastCoastSchoolofSafety.com