CLEVELAND, Ohio - What's from the heart, reaches the heart.

That's one of Marlene Jackson's personal mantras. She evokes it in discussing what makes good art, a speech worth listening to or an idea catch fire. It was her heart, she says, that drew her into becoming a foster parent nearly four decades ago. Her heart that decided one of those children would become her adopted son.

On the eve of the adoption hearing that will make it official, 15-year-old King Weatherspoon rolls his eyes and laughs playfully at his foster mom's sentimentality. It's a quiet night like many others spent in the modest bungalow they share in Bedford. The dinner table is set. King has homework to do. He teases Marlene, as she fumbles through the apps of her iPad ("Look at how she just pokes at it!") in search of photos and videos that document their journey together.

And that's the part - the nostalgia, the tender reflection -- that makes this night feel special. Tomorrow, Marlene and King will step into a future that might have seemed impossible to imagine just three and a half years ago, when he arrived on her doorstep, sullen, disengaged and trapped in a body that weighed nearly 500 pounds. Tomorrow, King becomes one of the lucky few teenagers in foster care to settle into a "forever" family.

More than 2,300 children are in foster care in Cuyahoga County - 520 of them are in the county's permanent custody. Of those, half are in the process of being adopted, while the rest are in a holding pattern, often waiting until they reach 18 and age out of the system altogether. Their stories, those with both happy and sad endings, are usually confined to county files and courtrooms, where they escape public attention.

But King is exceptional in this regard as well. In one of the earliest chapters of his story, the county took him from his birth mother's care on account of his obesity. The controversial decision made international news and drew the condemnation of pundits, who predicted the separation would ruin King's chances of ever leading a prosperous life.

They were wrong.

King is aware of all the ways in which he beat the odds to become the high-achieving, socially adept, healthier version of himself that flourished in Marlene's care. He says, matter-of-factly, that before he came here, he should have died, either in the streets or from obesity -- a boy who had experienced more trauma in his first 12 years than most people are exposed to in a lifetime. So much trauma, in fact, that he seemed to be carrying the weight of the world.

Born into poverty

King's journey began the way life does for too many children in Cleveland - consumed by abject poverty. His memories of his earliest years are fractured. He remembers moving with his biological mother and older brother nearly a dozen times, attending 10 different elementary schools. Sometimes the family was homeless. King remembers a stretch during which they lived in a church. Often he and his brother slept at friends' houses and panhandled outside of grocery stores, while his mom crashed with other friends. By all accounts, she loved her sons, she just didn't know how to parent them.

Always his neighborhoods were fraught with violence, drugs, guns. Against that backdrop, King's brother, who is eight years older than him, raised King, teaching him what he needed to know to survive their unstable life. But often that meant greater instability. King's brother had anger-management problems that only got worse with time. And in every neighborhood, the brothers found themselves entangled with bad influences.

To cope, King turned to food. Without the sound nutritional guidance of a stable parent, and without comfort and support from other sources, his weight quickly spiraled out of control. By the time King was 8 years old, he weighed more than 200 pounds. (National health guidelines suggest a healthy 8-year-old boy should weigh about 60 pounds.) He was taxed just by walking, suffered from sleep apnea and was at risk for developing diabetes and high-blood pressure.

King's situation came to the attention of the Cuyahoga County Department of Children and Family Services in 2010 after his mother took him to a hospital because he was having trouble breathing. King only remembers the sudden appearance of a social service worker in his life after that. He says he didn't mind all the meddling. Truth be told, he didn't care. His first eight years of life had worn him down.

Social workers spent about a year working with King's mother. She agreed to enroll him in a special Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital program called Healthy Kids, Healthy Weight, which aimed to educate families about adopting healthy eating habits. King remembers attending the sessions. But at home, nothing would change, he says. His mother seemed unable to help him put the guidance into practice.

Then, in 2011, the county took a controversial step that made international headlines: King was placed in foster care, with the justification that his mother's failure to help manage his extreme obesity was a form of medical neglect. It was the first time in state history that a child had been taken from his parent for weight-related issues. In light of the case, a national debate raged over whether separating King from his family was a heavy-handed overreaction to his weight problem, given that millions of children in the U.S. also are considered obese but remain with their parents.

News commentators and opinion columnists across the country lambasted the county for the decision, arguing that it would hurt King more than it would help him.

"In the absence of actual abuse, taking a child away from his mother and placing him in foster care is not in anyone's best interests -- not the child, not the mother and not the rest of society which will have to deal with the emotional fallout for years to come," syndicated columnist Ruben Navarrette Jr. wrote for CNN in December 2011. "What will become of this child? What kind of person will he grow up to be? Will he be angry and bitter, and how will he express those feelings?"

Entering foster care

King says he was intentionally a "bad kid" for his first foster mother. He says the arrangement lasted only a month before the county reassigned him to the care of one of his uncles. There, according to news accounts at the time, King lost about 50 pounds over several months and had adopted better eating and exercise habits. He was returned to his mother's care in 2012, with the expectation that the county would continue to monitor him.

But King says his mother almost immediately fled the state with both of her sons, moving them to Georgia, where they knew no one. There, King remembers, he and his brother "fell into a hole," becoming involved with drugs and guns and bad people.

"I just really wanted to have fun," King says, reflecting on that time. "Most of my friends were selling drugs, and they had money and their lives seemed OK compared to where we were. The lifestyle seemed so much better than what we were doing."

But King's brother was protective. And while they ran with that crowd, King remembers his brother never really let him become fully entrenched with them.

After about two years, King's brother remained in Georgia for a few months, while King and his mother returned to Northeast Ohio, this time to Euclid.

It's unclear how King's situation again caught the attention of social workers with the Department of Children and Family Services. The county closely guards the identity of those reporters. But by this time, King was 12 years old and weighed 487 pounds.

The case was assigned to social worker Mallory McConnell, who specializes in working with children in need of extended services.

In a recent interview, Mallory said that when she met King, he was in a fragile state. He had developed type 2 diabetes and couldn't walk even the shortest distance without panting. He was wearing ill-fitting clothes and sleeping on a half-deflated air mattress. He was depressed and socially isolated. King hardly ever left the house and was enrolled in an online charter school. He had missed so many days of instruction that he was repeating the 6th grade and had straight Fs.

He was quiet and never spoke much to Mallory during her visits.

Nevertheless, the county's goal was to keep King with his family, while getting him the help he needed, Mallory said. For months, she visited the home regularly. She went grocery shopping with his mother, helped hire a nutritionist and attended King's medical appointments.

But the situation remained dire. And finally, a judge signed off on the county's motion to take custody of King once again.

King remembers Mallory's final visit in the home he shared with his birth mother.

"Get dressed," Mallory kindly instructed him. "You're coming with me today."

King says she took him to a hospital for a check-up and then to a Subway restaurant for dinner, where he ate a turkey sandwich.

He was only 12, but he was exhausted, tired of feeling angry and sad. He says now, that he thought at the time he probably would not live much longer. He resigned himself to whatever came next. Whether that be death or something more hopeful, he figured it had to be better than the life he was leading.

King's depression was so deep by the time Mallory had come to collect him, that he had stopped keeping track of his own birthdays.

But he recalls that on the car ride to his new foster mother's home on Northfield Road, he glanced at Mallory's paperwork, noticed the date printed there - Oct. 2, 2014 - and committed it to memory.

"I don't know why," he says. "I just thought it was important."

King meets Miss Marlene

Marlene Jackson had taken dozens of children into her home over 38 years, working with the Pressley Ridge foster care agency. She had been specially trained as a "treatment parent," capable of housing children with the most extreme emotional problems. And she thought she had seen it all.

But when the county called upon her to accept King, she initially refused. Marlene recalls being told that King was dying, and that he needed someone like her. But she didn't believe she could meet his needs. And besides, she already had two girls in her custody; there wasn't room for a third child.

Marlene doesn't recall if the girls were reassigned after that to a new foster home or reunified with their parents. But somehow, the county managed to help make room in her life for King. So Marlene prayed about it and said yes.

Both Marlene and King laugh when he recalls the annoyance he felt at riding up for the first time to Marlene's home, and seeing the extroverted woman out front, waving wildly and yelling a warm greeting.

"She was loud," King says of his first impression, prompting a belly laugh from Marlene. "And I didn't like loud people. It was such an inconvenience."

But Marlene's first impression of King was much graver. He appeared unkempt. He was wearing only one flip-flop. (The other had broken, he explains.) He could not cross the living room without stopping to gulp air. He came with a list of ailments and medications.

Most heartbreaking of all, Marlene says, "He looked as though the world just didn't matter."

King barely had time to settle into his new room before Marlene said, "Let's go."

Go where? To the store, of course, to buy shoes and clothes for church the next morning, Marlene told him.

"I don't just sit around here. Let's go," Marlene prodded him sternly, all the while praying that King would survive the outing without collapsing.

King discovers his true self

King's lifestyle changed dramatically from that day on. And King says he submitted to it, eating any healthy meal Marlene set in front of him - salads, vegetables, baked fish and chicken. Once a week, she took him out to dinner, during which he could eat whatever he desired. They started with Bob Evans and local diners and quickly branched out. Soon King found he was developing his palate for different flavors and ethnic foods. King also took an interest in learning to cook.

Meanwhile, Marlene got him moving. She forced him to accompany her to the grocery store or the mall. Little by little, his breathing became less labored. And a month later when King visited his doctor, the hard work proved worth it. He had lost 30 pounds.

Proud and motivated by this early victory, King ramped up his efforts. He joined the YMCA, began working with a personal trainer, and even enrolled in a CrossFit program.

His grades improved, too. King was still taking classes through the online charter school, when his teachers noticed the sudden change in his performance and caught a glimpse of his true aptitude - especially in his writing assignments. In fact, his writing was so advanced that Marlene admits she wrongly suspected him of plagiarism. Instead, he was tested and found to be in the "gifted and talented" range. King, who had been held back in the 6th grade, was now approved to skip 7th grade altogether. He also was admitted into the National Junior Honor Society.

King found that his peers at his new church, Historic Greater Friendship Baptist Church in Cleveland, immediately accepted him. He enjoyed their company, sang with them in the choir and traveled with the youth group.

But King was craving opportunities for more socialization. He wanted to go to school with other students. Marlene was determined to help make that happen, but his teachers at the online charter school suggested King would thrive best under the challenge and rigor of a college prep school, rather than a public school. King started perusing brochures and websites, until he fell in love with Hawken School.

"This place is nice," he remembers telling Marlene.

Indeed, Hawken is nice, she agreed. But Hawken's high school tuition tops $30,000 a year. Marlene worried about dashing his dreams against reality. Still, she encouraged him to apply.

Wouldn't you know it? King got accepted to begin that fall as a freshman - and the school offered him nearly a full ride. Cuyahoga County helped with the remainder and incidental fees.

A near tragedy strengthens the bond

Around that time, and seemingly out of the blue, Marlene asked King how he felt about adoption.

"So do you want to be my baby?" she asked.

"Ok," he responded, almost immediately. ("As casual as if I were just asking if he wanted a glass of water," Marlene now jokes about that moment.)

Of all the children Marlene had ever cared for, why was this boy different? Why would he be the one she would call her own? Marlene explains it with references to "God's plan" and with moving descriptions of the way it made her heart feel to watch him break free from his past and begin to thrive.

"What's from the heart, reaches the heart," she says. "And I could see in his eyes that this is my baby."

For King, who says he's an "emotional person, just not in a conventional way," the realization that he loved Marlene as a mother came when he began keeping track of the time he had spent with her.

"I began feeling like, 'OK, I kind of like what is happening. I don't want it to blur by. I want to be able to remember it,'" he says. "I noticed that most of that feeling had a lot to do with her."

And then, just as they initiated the adoption process and life seemed to be moving in the right direction, Marlene was involved in a near-fatal car accident - a head-on collision that left her with injuries to her neck, back, head and arm.

Months of rehabilitation stretched out before her. But King was at her side every step of the way.

Social worker Jennifer Burnett, who was assigned to work on King's adoption case, remembers the way he doted on Marlene throughout her recovery - fluffing her pillows, retrieving things for her and cautioning her against overextending herself.

Marlene resolved that, for King's sake, she had to survive this ordeal. She had to get up and take care of her child. She had to see him, one day, graduate from Hawken and march toward the prosperous future he deserves.

King continues to thrive

As Marlene continued her recovery and the adoption case made its way through the system, King thrived at his new school.

He joined Hawken's speech-and-debate team and specialized in "original oratory," a competitive event that requires the speaker to deliver, from memory, a 10-minute long persuasive speech on a social issue. He began competing at universities across the country - winning his first tournament at Arizona State University and placing in others, including in a competition at Stanford University.

The topic he chose was Ebonics, its legitimacy as a language, its role in American black culture and history, and how harmful it is to look down upon it as the vernacular of poverty. In explaining his topic to a reporter, King says Ebonics is his primary language, and that he only began teaching himself standard English in recent years by watching shows on Netflix, pronouncing words the same way as the characters and mimicking the context.

During a Black History Month event this year, King was invited to deliver his speech before the primarily white Hawken student body of 480. King says he was terrified. But the second his final words were spoken, the crowd was on its feet.

"So many people came up to me afterward and said, 'You changed my mind,'" King says. "And that was so satisfying. I had to realize that when people seem racist or bigoted, they aren't always bad people. It's just ignorance. And to eliminate that you have to be willing to approach them not with anger, but with understanding."

(Watch King rehearse his speech in the video below.)

King's humanities teacher and speech-and-debate coach, Becca Marks, says when students are experiencing stress before a big exam, King is "the light," doling out hugs and words of motivation. And when he speaks in class, his comments often are so insightful there is a palpable shift in the discussion.

"Especially in a class in which we're focused on the ancient world and how it connects to the modern, he can step into the shoes of someone from two millennia ago and express what that person would have been feeling," Becca said in a recent interview. "The empathy is really deep, and it sets an example for everybody else."

Mother and son

On a sunny spring morning, King and Marlene enter the courtroom of Cuyahoga County Probate Court Judge Laura Gallagher. They say hello to a gallery full of those who have played a role on their journey - family members, county social workers and folks representing the Pressley Ridge foster agency and Hawken School.

After three years of taking life one step at a time, today King takes his biggest leap yet, officially and permanently becoming Marlene's son. Connected by the heart, if not by blood.

King looks dapper in his gray sport coat and dress shirt, having now lost more than 150 pounds. He sits beside Marlene at a table, awaiting the judge. She whispers something in his ear, and he bursts out laughing.

"You're so weird!" he chides Marlene between chuckles.

They are ready.

The judge enters the courtroom. Everyone is smiling. Eyes are wet. The judge tells the court that today it is as if we are all at the hospital, and King is being born. We're waiting to count his toes and fingers and to see if he has dimples.

"The relationship between you and Marlene as a result of this adoption is as if you were born to her," the judge tells King. "And after talking with the two of you in my office, I don't think Marlene could love you any more if you had been born to her as a beautiful little bouncing baby boy."

The judge lingers for a minute on the dire straits King faced when Marlene met him, and on how many children have passed through Marlene's home and spent time in her care. How this child was different.

"Marlene has never met someone like you, King," she says. "Of all the kids..." Her voice trails off.

What's from the heart, reaches the heart, as Marlene likes to say.

And then, the anticipated moment arrives.

"Congratulations," the judge says. "You are mother and son."

Watch the full adoption hearing below, courtesy of Cuyahoga County.