BASF revealed plans to build a new speciality amines plant at its existing wholly owned site located in China’s Nanjing Chemical Industry Park.

With a capacity to manufacture 21,000t per year, the new multi-product plant will further extend the company’s amines portfolio at the complex and is scheduled to become operational in 2019.

The plant will primarily produce 1,2-propylenediamine (1,2-PDA), n-octylamine (n-OA), and polyetheramine (PEA).



German chemical company Wacker Chemie announced it was to invest nearly €60m in its production facility in Ulsan, South Korea.

The investment will be used to build a new 80,000mt per annum capacity spray dryer for dispersible polymer powders.

Wacker also plans to build an additional reactor for dispersions based on vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer (VAE).

Germany-based Linde Gases signed a €1bn contract with Total Raffinerie Mitteldeutschland to extend their existing partnership by a further 15 years.

The new deal will be effective from 1 January next year, strengthening the two-decade partnership between the companies.

The deal will see Linde supply oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen from its local facilities for Total in Germany.

LyondellBasell started operations at a new 20,000tpa polypropylene (PP) compounding plant in Dalian, China.

This is the company's third facility in China. The plant is strategically located to serve the region's growing automotive market.

LyondellBasell CEO Bob Patel said: "With China's automobile market poised for significant growth over the next several years this facility allows us to better serve our customers, reduce shipping time and logistics costs while delivering a strong return for our shareholders.

"This plant leverages our global value chain, from polypropylene technology to specialised compounded products, for the benefit of our customers in the region."

Swiss chemicals company Clariant signed a licence agreement with Slovakia-based bioethanol producer Enviral for the use of sunliquid cellulosic ethanol technology.

As part of the deal, Enviral has gained a licence to use Clariant's sunliquid technology to design, build and operate a new full-scale commercial cellulosic ethanol plant at its Leopoldov site in Slovakia for the production of cellulosic ethanol from agricultural residues.

To be owned and operated by Enviral, the new plant is planned to be integrated into the existing facilities at Enviral's Leopoldov site with an annual production capacity of 50,000t.

Showa Denko’s (SDK) consolidated subsidiary Showa Denko Gas Products (SGP) announced plans to establish a new facility that will produce liquefied carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) gas in its Oita Petrochemical Complex in Japan.

With an annual production capacity of 15,000t, the new plant will be used as a carbon dioxide source for the chemical plant of the complex.

The plant is scheduled to begin operations in August next year.

Cepsa and Golden Agri-Resources (GAR) joint venture (JV) Sinar Mas Cepsa opened an oleochemicals plant in Indonesia with an investment of nearly €300m over two years.

Located in Dumai at Sumatra, the facility will use sustainably sourced palm kernel oil to develop fatty alcohol, which is used to make household cleaning goods and personal care products.

Sinar Mas Cepsa CEO Kung Chee Whan said: "The Dumai plant leverages Cepsa’s technology and expertise in oleochemicals, and relies on GAR for raw materials, marking the second plant of this partnership.

"Having already secured a foothold in Europe through the acquisition of our surfactant plant in Germany, we will definitely look into further downstream projects or expansion capacity in this part of the world."

Clariant was recognised in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2017 as one of the most sustainable chemical companies for the fifth consecutive year.

The global sustainability index has placed Clariant among the top 4% of companies in chemical sector in DJSI Europe and DJSI World.

The company was rated highly in the categories of materiality, environmental and social reporting, operational eco-efficiency, climate change strategy, water-related risks and human capital development.