Tennis superstar Serena Williams is known for her daring style both on and off the court (in case you missed it, she just wore a catsuit at the French Open). But when it came to her new namesake fashion line, “Serena,” she served up some ice-cold shade on one ubiquitous trend.

“We all know how I feel about the cold shoulders,” Williams tells The Post of last year’s beloved shoulder cutout trend. “We were like no way. Cold shoulders; I had to put my foot down.”

The line debuts today on Serena Williams’ website with 12 core pieces — and the remainder will drop throughout the summer and fall. With prices ranging from $35 to $250, the 36-year-old says her togs can take women from the boardroom to the club and anywhere in between.

“I wanted to show [clothes] for different aspects of my life. [This collection] encompasses a lot of the things women do,” Williams tells The Post. And that includes her newest role: mom to daughter Olympia, 8 months.

“I’m a mom now. It’s really changed how I wear clothes,” Williams says. “I want to be comfortable and practical but I want to look good. It’s almost as if I want to look better than I did before to prove that I can.”

She plans to drop approximately 75 pieces, including metallic anoraks, athleisure, sleek menswear shirts, parachute pants, denim jumpers, pencil skirts and figure-hugging dresses that come in black, pink and leopard.

There’s also a modern update on the Juicy Couture tracksuit coming in a later launch, which has high-waisted trousers and a matching top with bell sleeves.

“When I was younger I used to wear Juicy Couture and this has a super modern vibe to it. This is actually one of my favorite pieces,” she says.

Williams — who has modeled in fashion shows for designer pals and had a line with HSN prior to this one — had to majorly multi-task last year in order to pull off this line launch: Olympia was born in September, she got married in November and she’s been working hard to return to tennis.

So the creative process for the “Serena” line “took a little over two years probably because in between there was a marriage and a baby so it may have taken a bit longer,” she says with a laugh.

“We wanted to get it right and make sure everything was perfect. There’s a lot of practicality in it but at the same time you can be sexy and stylish and trendy,” Williams says, adding, “But not over the top.”