CLOSE Serena Williams turned heads with outfit then her play, as she knocked off Kristyna Pliskova for her first win in a major since becoming a mom. Rafael Nadal also advanced at Roland Garros, beating Simone Bolelli. USA TODAY Sports

Serena Williams walks out onto court for her singles match against Kristyna Pliskova of Czech Republic during day three of the 2018 French Open at Roland Garros on May 29. (Photo: Cameron Spencer, Getty Images)

Three-time French Open champion Serena Williams took the court Tuesday in a statement outfit, and many fans on Twitter said she looked like a boss.

It's the first major championship for Williams since giving birth to her daughter in September. Going into her first-round match at the French Open against Kristyna Pliskova of the Czech Republic, Williams had not played a competitive match on clay this season.

On Tuesday Williams wore a full length black Nike bodysuit with a bold red waistband. She won the match 7-6 (4), 6-4 and will next face Ashleigh Barty.

Here's what Williams told journalist Jon Wertheim about what she wore: "All the moms out there that had a tough pregnancy and have to come back and try to be fierce, in a middle of everything. That's what this represents. You can't beat a cat suit, right?"

She later wrote on Twitter: "Catsuit anyone? For all the moms out there who had a tough recovery from pregnancy — here you go. If I can do it, so can you. Love you all!"

Williams also said the tight suit helps her deal with blood clots, which have been an issue in the past.

"I had a lot of problems with those; I don't know how many I have had in the past 12 months," she said after the match, according to the BBC. "It definitely has little functionality to it."

Alexis Ohanian, Williams' husband who was in the crowd watching her opening match, called it her "superhero outfit" on Twitter.

Winning her last major championship at the 2017 Australian Open, Williams has 23 Grand Slam singles titles, the most of the Open era.

If Williams reaches the fourth round at Roland Garros, she could play two-time French Open champion Maria Sharapova. Sharapova, who is playing at Roland Garros for the first time since 2015, needed three sets to beat Richel Hogenkamp of the Netherlands on Tuesday.

Catsuit anyone? For all the moms out there who had a tough recovery from pregnancy—here you go. If I can do it, so can you. Love you all!! pic.twitter.com/xXb3BKDGNF — Serena Williams (@serenawilliams) May 29, 2018

Serena Williams, to @jon_wertheim, on the cat suit: "All the moms out there that had a tough pregnancy and have to come back and try to be fierce, in a middle of everything. That's what this represents. You can't beat a cat suit, right?" pic.twitter.com/XycL3WeNbj — TENNIS.com (@Tennis) May 29, 2018