CLEVELAND, Ohio - There is something special about Contessa Korper's kitchen table.

Shoehorned into the space between her kitchen counter and family room, this table, made of rich, deep brown wood, with a faux marble lazy Susan, is among the nicest of the family's possessions.

What makes it special is the love that brought it home -- the love of four children for their mother.

And for that mom, who now calls those kids to the table for dinner each night, buying this piece of furniture was one empowering decision she could make in a neighborhood that often leaves parents feeling powerless against the destructive forces of the inner city.

She proudly tells you her table's story without provocation.

Until recently, she says, she had a small table that seated only four people. So she would let her kids sit there while she took her meals in front of the TV or over the counter.

But two years ago, during her kids' check-up with their pediatrician, the doctor asked them independently a series of questions, and Contessa was stunned to learn that each had said they longed for more family meals with their mom. It was such a simple request. But it broke Contessa's heart.

She immediately went furniture shopping and settled on this dining set, with ample seating for all five of them and an occasional guest.

Her credit was bad at the time, so a friend co-signed to help her finance the purchase. And she opted for insurance on the table, too. ("Even if my house burns down," she says, "at least I know I'll have a kitchen table wherever we end up.") Today she is making monthly payments on this table so her family can sit down together for dinner.

She smiles when she talks about how paying off the debt has improved her credit, how close she is to owning the table outright and how much quality time they now share in this space that has become a hub of activity in her home.

Here, her children toil over homework, their worksheets sprawled under a dim fluorescent light.

Here, her oldest son, Princeton, debates with his mom the potential dangers of joining the football team with boys much bigger than him. ("Don't worry," Princeton assures her. "Outrunning the others will keep me safe.")

Here, they bow their heads in prayer before sharing a meal. They take turns saying grace and always choose the same seats each night. The littlest, 5-year-old Princess, nestled in the corner where two banquettes meet. She sits shoulder-to-shoulder with 11-year old Queen Ona and 7-year-old King. Princeton - by default, the man of the house at age 12 - gets one of two single, upholstered chairs. His back to a wall of hazy windows that look out onto the Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority's King Kennedy public housing complex.

And here, Contessa begins to share her family's story with two reporters - and with you. It's a story that is, in many ways, similar to those of other single moms raising their families under the crushing weight of poverty. It tells of food stamps, substandard housing options, fatherlessness, gun violence, exposure to trauma, the struggle to find a stable job and the constant pull upon her children of life in the streets.

But hers is also a story that might sound much like your own -- a story about a parent's fierce love for her children and her deepest hope that they find the path to prosperity.

This is the first installment of what will be an ongoing series about the lives of children in the inner-city, the daily challenges that they and their families face and the roadblocks to becoming successful adults. We are calling this project A Greater Cleveland. It's a title that reflects the role we all can play in shaping the future of Cleveland's youth.

In the coming months, weeks, even years, you will get to know Contessa's kids and the other families that have opened their lives to a small team of cleveland.com reporters, introduced to them through the Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland. In time, a corresponding advocacy effort will take shape, unlike anything we have ever tried to do. We hope that you will join the movement.

There's a seat at the table for you.

A Greater Cleveland is a project of cleveland.com and The Plain Dealer. See the entirety of our project by clicking here.

A Greater Cleveland is a call to action to the community to help identify and remove the barriers to success faced by Cleveland children in poverty. For those moved to make donations, we ask that you consider a gift to the United Way of Greater Cleveland, which is focusing on issues of multigenerational poverty that this series will examine. Because of the sensitive family matters discussed in this series, we have provided the people we write about anonymity and are using pseudonyms to identify them.