USA – -(Ammoland.com)- Leave it to Moms Demand Action founder Shannon Watts to put down Thursday’s incident in Oklahoma City, where armed citizens shot and killed an attacker who opened fire in a restaurant, wounding a woman and her daughter. While details are still unfolding at this writing, it’s significant that Oklahoma City Police Captain Bo Matthews had earlier referred to what was initially thought to be a lone defender as a “good Samaritan,” and that per OCPD “All involved parties were interviewed and released.”

“Bad guy gets a gun – shoots three at Lake Hefner restaurant – and the @NRA calls it a victory,” Watts groused on her Twitter feed. “In other high income countries, bad guys don’t get guns. People don’t get shot at restaurants. And armed strangers don’t have to risk their lives in the line of fire.”

Jeez, lady, how about a bit of acknowledgment that a known “gun threat” was stopped? Apparently, she would have preferred he’d have been free to go on his way. That has attracted no shortage of useful idiot suck-ups, each of whom would be utterly incapable of defending themselves, nodding in agreement…

Lost on them all is that the police – the “Only Ones” they want to have guns – were nowhere around, having arrived after the fact as they generally do. Had the citizens not stopped the perp, who knows what a known and desperate murderer on thge loose with a gun would have done next?

And that “high income” qualifier Watts just inserted into the narrative is an old trick, one gun owners need to be aware of.

To solidify their assertion that the U.S. has more lethal violence than other nations, those who demand our disarmament have been falling back on the meaningless “industrialized nations”deception. They use it to exclude from the discussion countries that don’t support their premise, like Russia and Mexico, both with more restrictive gun laws and higher violent crime than the U.S.

Whether one consults the UN, the IMF, the World Bank or the CIA Factbook, Mexico has a larger GDP than many of the nations that qualify as “developed” when it suits gun-grabber purposes. Also rated above many countries in term of “economic complexity,” Mexico includes cars, computers, video displays and delivery trucks among its top exports. It boasts a literacy rate of 93.4 percent. And somebody had better tell Vladimir Putin that Third World jerkwater he rules over has no business exporting rocket engines to the U.S., or as we’ve recently seen, threatening us more “developed” people with an “‘invincible’ intercontinental cruise missile and a nuclear torpedo that could outsmart all American defenses.”

So now the gun-grabbers are changing the terminology to “high income,” as if cherry-picking is the way out of a corner they’ve backed themselves into. If that’s the way they want to play it, and if guns really are the problem, why not compare crimes of violence among those selected populations with, say, the 5 million members of the NRA?

Plus, let’s revisit some of those “commonsense” G7 nations in a few years after the invasive cultural terraforming has had a chance to really work its magic. The UK, France, Italy and Germany are increasingly looking like places you won’t want to brag about, and realistically if they can’t keep dangerous people out, what makes them think they’ll succeed with hardware?

But back to Shannon, and her newest gripe against you and me keeping and bearing arms…

“The @NRA says this is a win in Lake Hefner…,” Watts complained, unable to let go of the fact that a successful DGU (defensive gun use) for all to see seriously threatens her narrative.

“Yes – the man who shot four people inside a restaurant, including a 12 year old child, was an armed citizen,” she continued, conflating normal people with evil ones. That’s another old word game they play, that every gun owner is “law-abiding” until he’s not, or more to the point, that “there’s no such thing as a law-abiding gun owner.”

Using that “logic,” every man is a rapist-in-waiting, which, of course, is something totalitarians that want to tear down our culture and replace it with an unchallengeable “Monopoly of Violence” would love to see more people believe.

These creatures really would rather see you dead than armed, because a populace being able to defy and resist their rule is what they fear most. Unable (yet) to attain their goals by force, they resort to fraud via professional propagandists.

Professional propagandists like Shannon Watts…

And switching gears, but not really since Watts presents her motivation as one of saving lives, it’s not unfair to ask “What did she know and when did she know it?” on another matter of life and death.

About David Codrea:

David Codrea is the winner of multiple journalist awards for investigating / defending the RKBA and a long-time gun owner rights advocate who defiantly challenges the folly of citizen disarmament.

In addition to being a field editor/columnist at GUNS Magazine and associate editor for Oath Keepers, he blogs at “The War on Guns: Notes from the Resistance,” and posts on Twitter: @dcodrea and Facebook.