The epic boardroom battle between Shari Redstone and CBS got physical when a director at the broadcasting giant manhandled the 64-year-old media heiress, according to fresh courtroom allegations.

In a 66-page lawsuit filed Tuesday in Delaware, the daughter of ailing billionaire Sumner Redstone claims CBS director Charles Gifford “acted in an intimidating and bullying manner” toward Redstone during two separate incidents in 2016 and 2017.

“On one occasion,” Gifford, who is also chairman emeritus of Bank of America, manhandled Redstone “by grabbing her face and directing her to listen to him,” according to the suit.

After the alleged incident, Redstone decided to handle it “privately and discreetly,” by not nominating Gifford to the board of a combined CBS and Viacom should a merger between the companies go through, according to the suit.

After hearing that Redstone was upset, Gifford later “told her that he meant no offense, and that was how he treats his daughters when he wants their attention,” the suit alleges.

In response, “Ms. Redstone clarified that she was not Mr. Gifford’s daughter but instead the Vice Chair of CBS,” according to the suit.

Gifford referred questions to CBS. In a statement, CBS denied Redstone’s claim that Gifford got physical with her.

“Ms. Redstone’s issue with Mr. Gifford is that he has always operated by an entirely different definition of what it means to be an independent director — namely to act in the best interest of all CBS shareholders,” a CBS spokesperson said in a statement.

“As a result of Mr. Gifford’s steadfast belief in good corporate governance, it is unfortunate and revealing that NAI has resorted to baseless personal attacks that are clearly tied to the execution of Mr. Gifford’s duties in this matter.”

Elsewhere, Redstone’s Tuesday filing portrays CBS Chief Executive Les Moonves as an overpaid, power-hungry mogul who has tried to undermine her clout as CBS’s controlling shareholder through her holding company, National Amusements.

That includes an extraordinary vote by the CBS board last week to dilute Redstone’s 80 percent voting control by issuing a dividend. Redstone retaliated by amending CBS’s bylaws to block the move, and a judge will decide the outcome.

Moonves “has tired of having to deal with a stockholder with voting control and has taken particular umbrage that the exercise of such stockholder’s control has migrated from Sumner Redstone to his daughter, Ms. Redstone,” the complaint alleges.

A rep from CBS shot back, “Today’s reactive complaint from NAI was not unexpected. The amended complaint filed last week by CBS and its Special Committee details the ways in which NAI misused its power to the detriment of CBS shareholders, and was submitted after careful deliberation by all involved. We continue to believe firmly in our position.”