CLOSE Watch how the chefs at Axle Brewing Co. Livernois Tap prepare their delicious Chicken Shawarma Wings for Free Press Test Kitchen Director Sue Selasky. Susan Selasky/Detroit Free Press

Buy Photo Chicken shawarma wings are prepared by Axle Brewing Company's Executive Chef Elliot Patti and sous chef Moses Fishman . (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Tonight's top 10 Takeover dinner at Livernois Tap in Ferndale may be sold out, but you can have a taste of one of their popular menu items. Sous chef Moses Fishman is one of the chefs behind Livernois Tap's Shawarma Wings.The wings were described as one of the smartest items on the menu as Livernois Tap garnered the No. 8 spot in Detroit Free Press' list of the Top 10 new restaurants.

Fishman said they came up with the idea while they working on the Livernois Tap menu but couldn’t cook because the kitchen wasn’t built yet. And so, they ordered food out a lot. One of the places they ordered from was Anita’s Kitchen Lebanese Café and Marketplace in Ferndale.

More: Best New Restaurant #8: Livernois Tap, Ferndale

“Anita’s has great shawarma," Fishman said. We kind of put two and two together and thought what about a shawarma wing,” Fishman said.

Fishman said they also knew they wanted to have a grilled wing on the menu and that these grill well.

These wings get their tenderness from being marinated in a highly spiced Greek yogurt. The key to the flavor is toasting the whole cumin seeds and black peppercorns to intensify their flavor. Once marinated they are slowly cooked until they are tender and then

Shawarma Wings

Makes: 2 dozen wing / Prep time: 30 minutes (plus overnight marinating time) / Total time: 2 hours

2 dozen wings and flats, cleaned

1 tablespoon whole cumin seed

1 teaspoon whole black peppercorns

1 tablespoon paprika

1 teaspoon turmeric

¾ teaspoon garlic powder

2 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

½ cup plain Greek yogurt

FOR SERVING:

Salt

Chopped curly parsley

Pickles

Toum (garlic sauce)

Clean your wings and place them in a large bowl. Set aside.

In a small skillet, toast the cumin seed and black peppercorns over medium heat while constantly stirring. You should see smoke wisps after about 5-6 minutes of toasting. Remove the seeds and pour on to a plate to cool. Once cool, grind these spices to a powder in a spice grinder. Place in bowl and mix with the paprika, turmeric, garlic powder, salt and cinnamon.

Once you have your spice mixture, remove and reserve 2 tablespoons. Mix the remaining spices with the Greek yogurt. Add the spiced yogurt mixture to the chicken and toss chicken until evenly coated. Marinate the chicken in the refrigerator for 12-24 hours.

When ready to cook, preheat the oven to 300 degrees. Remove the chicken from the marinade and place on a sided baking sheet. Cover tightly with foil, sealing edges. Bake for 1 ½ hours or until the chicken wings are very tender and cooked through. Cool and then refrigerator until ready to serve.

At serving time, preheat the grill for medium-hot heat. Sprinkle the wings with the remaining 2 tablespoons of the spice rub. Grill about 6-7 minutes or until the wings are crisp and have nice grill marks. Place wings on a serving plate and sprinkle with a few pinches of salt and parsley. Serve with your favorite pickles and a few dollop s of toum.

From Axle Brewing Co. Livernois Tap, Ferndale.





Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LKouun