Lt. Paul Grambsch is second from left in this WWII photo of the Ward Room (Officers' Mess) on LST 393. Far left is Lt. Robert D. McRae, the ship's commanding officer from September 1944 to May 1945. (Photo: USS LST 393 Veterans Museum)

After his ship landed on Omaha Beach at Normandy, sailor Paul Grambsch carefully lowered a tattered American flag to the deck. He rolled up the soiled fabric and tucked it into a sea bag that would be found more than 50 years later, upon his death.

That flag saved by the Midwesterner is just one of many artifacts preserved on the World War II ship where it was first hoisted. Next weekend, people will journey to the west coast of Michigan to visit the USS LST 393, which delivered soldiers and tanks to the battle that led to the liberation of Europe and the defeat of Adolf Hitler.

The historic USS LST 393 Veterans Museum moored at the Mart Dock in downtown Muskegon on May 13, 2018. The USS LST was one of the vessels present at the landing in 1944 for the D-Day invasion of Omaha Beach. (Photo: Andraya Croft, Special to the Free Press)

The ship, now a museum anchored in Muskegon, is hosting a D-Day commemoration June 1-2 that includes tours, a dance and military re-enactments.

The nonprofit museum is what happens when a little town gets a big idea.

The USS LST 393 was restored and transformed by veterans, their families and supporters. In 2017, visitors arrived from 40 states and 13 countries.

“People walk around this ship with their mouths open," said John Stephenson, 66, who lives in Sarasota, Florida, and summers in Muskegon. "They see where people slept. And the engine room is so small. You can imagine going to war. This carries you back in time to D-Day.”

The warship is one of only two LSTs — Landing Ship, Tank — in America today that remain as originally built. With the fate of the free world depending on the ability of Allied armed forces to land troops and tanks on beaches, the LST was designed in late 1941 and soon 1,051 were produced by American shipyards working around the clock.

USS LST 393 stranded by retreating tides in Normandy during the D-Day invasion, July 1944. (Photo: USS LST 393 Veterans Museum)

The vessel at The Mart Dock in downtown Muskegon is now a dedicated memorial and community center, run on a shoestring budget with small tax-deductible donations.

The walls are papered with thousands of vintage photographs of servicemen and women, the sons and daughters of a great nation. Rooms throughout the ship contain artifacts, including military documents, weapons, journals and even military directives that were ordered to be destroyed — but weren’t.

"Everybody knows somebody who served in the military," said David Johnson, 57, a U.S. Navy veteran from Muskegon who serves on the museum board. "We are commemorating hundreds of thousands of lives lost."

Not only is the USS LST 393 a ship with a famous history; it enjoyed a long life after the war shipping automobiles on the Great Lakes.

“Those decks built for tanks and military equipment? We were able to carry about 200 cars in the early 1950s,” said retired Capt. Bob Priefer, 96, of Muskegon. “We carried General Motors cars, Chryslers and Fords. Cadillacs were a mile long with those tailfins.”

New automobiles fill the top deck of M/V HIGHWAY 16, formerly the USS LST 393, circa 1970. (Photo: Sand Products Corporation)

Back then, the ship was called the MV Highway 16, a motor vessel extension of the U.S. Highway 16 system; a connecting link between Muskegon, Milwaukee and the West Coast.

“They’ve done a wonderful job of converting the ship back to its original purpose,” said Priefer, a U.S. Merchant Marine veteran of WWII. “After the war, the LST became a very intricate part of the recovery of the nation. They carried petroleum products and were often used for ferrying passengers. What do you do with an old battleship besides cut ‘em up into old razor blades?"

In 1948, the McKee family, already in the marine transportation business as owners of Sand Products Corp., decided to buy the USS LST 393.

“There was a lot of war surplus available,” said Patrick McKee, 54, of Grosse Pointe Farms. “There was an opportunity to move new cars across Lake Michigan. GM was going West and Nash Ramblers (built in Kenosha, Wisconsin) were coming East.”

Like an attic

The LST seemed like a perfect fit for that job from 1948 to 1973. Then the ship faced an uncertain future. It finally found a third life as a museum, which didn't come easily. It went through a series of failures before finally hitting its stride with the support of the McKee family, military historian Dan Weikel, passionate board members and volunteers.

“Keeping the ship didn’t make sense but we did it. Sacrifice should be remembered," McKee said. “My dad was a very young sailor in the Navy in World War II and served in the Pacific. My grandfather, who purchased the ship, was a captain in the infantry in France in World War I. He was born in Tipton, Iowa, and moved to Detroit."

Hope Arends, 4, of Muskegon salutes to her mother while posing for a portrait aboard the USS LST 393 Veterans Museum in downtown Muskegon on May 13, 2018. Arends is dressed in WWII Army Corps feminine wear. (Photo: Andraya Croft, Special to the Free Press)

While many military museums are organized and curated and well-funded, the USS LST 393 is more like an old attic.

Jody Gooden Chatham, 63, of Carmel Valley, California, found a well-preserved diary after her uncle died. She started looking at each word, carefully written in cursive, and read with shock that Roy Leighton (Bud) Wall of Detroit was part of the D-Day invasion.

The words specifically mention friends serving on the USS LST 393 and describe in detail the lives of shipmates leading up to the historic event.

“I knew he was a medic,” Chatham said. “I had no idea he had been involved in D-Day operations. I was so shocked to find the journal. Going through it page by page, it was revealing how he had bombs dropping near the bow of his ships, when they beached, seeing prisoners of war all caged up.”

She added, “These men, for so many years, have been stoic.”

A newspaper clip she found says the F. Earl Wall family of 16500 Kentucky St. in Detroit had a record of “100 percent cooperation in the war effort and we take this occasion to bestow orchids on them …” It mentions her grandfather, her grandmother, her uncle and her mother.

“My hope is that, as visitors to the LST 393 museum stroll by exhibits, seeing a page or two from the personal account of a corpsman, will help bring to life the experience of serving on an LST during the invasion of Normandy,” she said, noting a plan to return to Detroit soon to inter her father’s ashes.

A trip into the past

Lisa Kressbach, 54, of New York took her father to Muskegon for his 80th birthday.

“We were walking around the decks, and the restored ward room, and the cabin that looks just like the one he had,” she said. “My father started telling stories of his naval service on an LST in the 1950s that I had not heard before, and I got to have a glimpse of him as a young man.”

Tom Kressbach, a U.S. Navy veteran from Grosse Pointe, smiles when he talks about the experience. “It took us 17 days to get to Japan. They’re slow boats. And they bounce around like a cork in heavy seas.”

Tom Kressbach of Grosse Pointe, who served on USS Stone County 1141 in 1959, at the wheel on his first visit to USS LST 393, June 25, 2016 in Muskegon. (Photo: Lisa Kressbach)

He served on the USS Stone County LST 1141 based in San Diego before heading out into the Pacific to Japan and Okinawa. Being on the USS LST 393 triggered memories.

"These ships were not about glory, but they made glory possible,” Kressbach said. “You take aboard tanks and deliver them to the war zone where amphibious operations were taking place. Being on that ship? It really took me back. You can feel it.”

The ship earned battle stars for invasions at Normandy, Sicily and Salerno.

Dr. William Cogar, executive director of the Historic Naval Ships Association, said the LSTs put troops directly onto shore without needing docks or piers.

“Vessels like the 393 are built to handle, hold and transport large items like tanks to where American forces need supplies. It’s an extraordinary feat of engineering,” he said.

The museum is of national and international significance, he said. “These are the vessels that helped bring about the success of World War II in a very non-heroic way."

It is the framed flag that often silences visitors.

“A family of a sailor named Paul Grambsch, who served on the ship on D-Day, contacted us,” Stephenson said. “He went up and got the flag down and put up a new one. But he took the old one to his room, folded it up, wrote a note dated June 6, 1944, and stuck that flag into his sea bag. He went off, fought his war, finished his service and threw that sea bag into the basement, where it sat the rest of his life.”

The flag flown on the USS LST 393 at Omaha Beach, D-Day in 1944 is on display aboard the Veterans Museum in Muskegon, Mich. on May 13, 2018. (Photo: Andraya Croft, Andraya Croft/Special to the Fre)

Grambsch went on to become dean of the business school at Tulane University and, later, the University of Minnesota.

After his death, his children and grandchildren traveled from Minnesota for a private ceremony at the ship and, like so many families, donated their belongings to the ship.

'People are awed'

Children see and touch and ask questions, said Stephenson, a past museum board chairman who frequently gives tours.

“People are awed,” he said. “Veterans bring us stories and I tell them all over the ship. In the little tiny sick bay they have on the ship, we have a story of the corpsman who was assigned to the ship on D-Day who hated being on the ship. He hated being at sea. He hated it so much that he asked for a transfer. Being a Marine, he was able to get land duty. So he ended up being a corpsman in Okinawa in the worst battle of the Pacific War.”

The lesson? “Be careful what you wish for.”

Dan Weikel of North Muskegon has been at the helm of the volunteer effort preserving USS LST 393 in Muskegon. (Photo: Patrick McKee)

Weikel, 80, of North Muskegon, a paratrooper who served in the 82nd Airborne Division at the start of the Vietnam War, has been giving ship tours since 2005.

“We spent seven or eight years having people look at us blankly. What the hell is an LST?” he said.

“The ship represents the veterans and shows everything from life back then, including cans of rations,” said Weikel, who initiated the museum plan. “We have a lot of guys who actually come on board and almost cry. It reminds them of somebody in the family who was in the service. This is where people served to make this country what it is.”

He has met visitors, many of them military veterans, from Russia, England, France, South Africa, Japan, Germany and South America.

“You can never stop thinking that you’re crossing the ocean and when you arrive the loss of life is horrendous and you can’t comprehend any of it until that moment,” Weikel said. “And our leaders stand with you and take you in. It’s part of the psyche.”

Robert Nichols, 94, of Clinton Township flew 30 bombing missions over Germany.

“We went after fuel supplies, manufacturing plants and bridges,” he said. “I saw planes shot down. We came home with holes in our planes. And Normandy, that was terrible.”

These days, he’s applauded when he goes out wearing a cap marked WWII. Most recently, a man waiting to board a plane at the airport kneeled in front of Nichols and thanked him for his service.

Traci Dewald of Muskegon views the 'Wall of Honor' aboard the USS LST 393 Veterans Museum in downtown Muskegon, Mich. on May 13, 2018. The wall honors Muskegon County enlisted soldiers who passed away in the Vietnam War. (Photo: Andraya Croft/Special to the Free Press)

Americans and their guests savor the opportunity to understand the past more fully, said Johnson, who serves on the board of Rolling Thunder Michigan Chapter 4. The veterans support group puts together the ship's annual celebration honoring D-Day.

"I joined the military two weeks into being 17 and never saw any combat," Johnson said. "I didn’t think about duty, honor and country until after I got older."

His father, who served in World War II, never talked about what he saw.

"I wish I was old enough at the time to be more inquisitive and ask questions," Johnson said. "Now I hear other people's stories and I learn about my father."

Booker Butler, 62, a U.S. Army veteran from Norton Shores who often works on the ship, is at a loss for words to describe the feeling of being on deck.

“It’s a whole different world,” he said. “People today don’t know what it was like to be a soldier. We trained. But these soldiers, they were just brought in and sent to war. I walk on that ship and see a whole different world. I say my life is complete because I’m alive and free.”

Contact Phoebe Wall Howard: 313-222-6512 or phoward@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @phoebesaid.

If you want to go

The USS LST 393 Veterans Museum, 560 Mart St., Muskegon is open seasonally, May-September, seven days a week including Memorial Day. Hours: 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; the last tour starts each day at 4 p.m.

Self-guided tours, $8 for adults/seniors, $5 for students (ages 5-17), children (under 5) are free. Volunteers are on hand to answer questions.

Annual D-Day Commemoration weekend: Friday, June 1 and Saturday, June 2. All tours are free. Friday evening swing dance, tickets are $10.

To plan a visit or to find out how to support the museum, go to www.lst393.org

Main number is 231-730-1477. To schedule group tours and events, call 231-725-5918.

Nearby: The USS Silversides Submarine Museum, featuring a World War II submarine that can be toured, is a 15-minute drive from USS LST 393 in Muskegon.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IIrv07