Newington, N.H. –-(Ammoland.com)- SIG SAUER, Inc., in partnership with the National Association of Police Equipment Distributors (NAPED), is pleased to announce it will begin offering a Special Edition Thin Blue Line SIG SAUER P320 Carry-size pistol. Availability for the this special edition pistol will begin at the NAPED Annual General Meeting being held June 8th – 10th in Savannah, Georgia and extend through December 2018.

“More and more law enforcement agencies across the country are choosing the SIG SAUER P320 as their standard duty pistol due to its modularity, dependability, and accuracy,” said Tim Brown, President of NAPED and GT Distributors. “SIG SAUER’s commitment to the law enforcement community is unwavering, and we are proud to participate in this very important and meaningful partnership with an associate member of our organization.”

The Special Edition Thin Blue Line SIG SAUER P320 Carry-size pistol is a 9mm, modular striker-fired pistol with serialized trigger group, interchangeable polymer group module, and SIGLITE Night Sights. The slide is adorned with the imagery of a Thin Blue Line Flag; the thin blue line representing the officer and the courage they find in the face of adversity, and the black background serving as a constant reminder of their fallen officers.

“It’s an honor for all of us here at SIG SAUER to serve our law enforcement community, and it’s humbling to earn the trust of police departments across the country through the selection of our firearms as their official duty sidearm,” said Tom Jankiewicz, Executive Vice President, Law Enforcement Sales. “The Thin Blue Line Flag is a powerful image that evokes emotion. We felt that by creating this Special Edition Thin Blue Line SIG SAUER P320 Carry-size pistol, in partnership with NAPED, was a compelling tribute to honor the fallen, and the sacrifices being made every day by our men and women in blue.”

The Special Edition Thin Blue Line SIG SAUER P320 Carry-size pistol is only available to the law enforcement community through the National Association of Police Equipment Distributors. NAPED is a non-profit association for law enforcement and public safety distributors, manufacturers, and industry professionals. It was founded for the purpose of developing strong business relationships, and to provide a resource for the best quality products and services for law enforcement professionals.

About SIG SAUER, Inc.

SIG SAUER, Inc. is a leading provider and manufacturer of firearms, electro-optics, ammunition, Advanced Sport Pellet (ASP) airguns, suppressors, and training. For over 100 years SIG SAUER, Inc. has evolved, and thrived, by blending American ingenuity, German engineering, and Swiss precision. Today, SIG SAUER is synonymous with bar-setting quality and innovation which has made it the brand of choice amongst the U.S. Military, the global defense community, law enforcement, competitive shooters, hunters, and responsible citizens. Additionally, SIG SAUER is the premier provider of elite firearms instruction and tactical training at the SIG SAUER Academy – a world class, state-of-the-art, 140-acre training facility. SIG SAUER is headquartered in Newington, New Hampshire, and has more than 1,700 employees across eight locations, and is the largest member of a worldwide business group that includes SIG SAUER GmbH & Co. KG in Germany, and Swiss Arms AG in Switzerland. For more information about the company and product line visit: sigsauer.com.