smart

Daimler reboots Smart management for electric-only future May 29 Daimler is changing top management at the maker of the tiny Smart car, part of the latest plan to overhaul a brand that's always been an awkward fit for the world's largest maker of luxury vehicles.



Daimler's Annette Winkler to step down as head of Smart May 29 Author: Christiaan Hetzner The CEO of Daimler's Smart business, Annette Winkler, is stepping down after eight years as head of the automaker's microcar brand.



Mercedes to make compact EV in France May 18 Daimler plans to invest $589 million into its plant in Hambach, France, to start producing a compact electric car for Mercedes. The new car, which will be part of Mercedes' EQ electric subbrand, will be built alongside the battery-powered Smart ForTwo.



Mercedes-Benz recalls 42,800 Smart ForTwos for fire risk May 11 Author: Anisa Jibrell Mercedes-Benz USA is recalling 42,781 vehicles in the U.S. after discovering a potential fire risk in the engine compartment.



Smart's Winkler to speak at Europe congress April 2 Annette Winkler, head of Daimler's Smart division, will be among the speakers June 6 at the Automotive News Europe Congress in Turin.



Smart boss bullish on future Sept. 17, 2017 Author: Amy Wilson Smart is discontinuing its gasoline-powered models and losing two-thirds of its U.S. dealers, but the brand's CEO believes sales won't fall very much.



Would you like to do the dull, painstaking work of advancing AI? Sept. 1, 2017 Author: Sharon Silke Carty Katie Burke Shiraz Ahmed This week we look at one of Microsoft's AI projects, Uber's new CEO, and an extra cheesy Ford Motor Co. autonomous test.



Smart previews self-driving city car for sharing Sept. 1, 2017 Author: Nick Gibbs Smart is presenting its vision for future transport with the Vision EQ autonomous EV concept. The concept is based on the ForTwo microcar and will be unveiled at the Frankfurt auto show.



AutoNews Now: Silver lining for dealers in Houston Aug. 31, 2017 Silver lining for dealers in Houston; Study: Most people don't want to ride in self-driving car; Exec moves at Aston, FCA; Apple exodus; A Smart car meant to share.



BMW remaps the roadster with Concept Z4 Aug. 17, 2017 Author: Amy Wilson BMW is returning to the roadster market and previews the styling with the Concept Z4 -- the automaker's vision of a modern, small and sporty car. The next Z4, due in 2019, features a new lightweight platform and is expected to grow in size.



Two-thirds of Smart's U.S. stores call it quits Aug. 14, 2017 Author: Amy Wilson Daimler's microcar brand will lose more than two-thirds of its U.S. dealerships after its lineup goes all-electric this year.

