By StoryStudio

It’s not every day when a founding member of an iconic rock band gives praise to its tribute band, yet this is exactly the type of adoration Mick Fleetwood recently heaped on Fleetwood Mask. “Just listen to the music and you’ll know what I’m talking about,” the legendary drummer asserted in 2017. “They even look like us, oh my god!” Combine the perfect acoustics at Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards on April 28th with Oysters on the Terrace on April 28th and a perfect spring evening unfurls like tulips and daffodils before you.

Tribute bands are experiencing unparalleled acclaim these days as rock and roll’s golden era grows more distant and original band members often roil in personal and legal disputes. Often these devoted ensembles perform the music of their heroes more solidly than the original groups they reflect. To this end Fleetwood Mask has perfected its songbook for more than two decades, performing at festivals and selling out such venerable clubs as Yoshi’s in Oakland and Berkeley’s Cornerstone.

Few musical catalogues accent a winery’s ambience better than Go Your Own Way, Dreams, Tusk and other brilliant tunes from Fleetwood Mac. Add the night sky and a newly released Sonoma-Cutrer rosé or Sauvignon Blanc and it’s easy to see why, in just its third year, Oysters on the Terrace at Sonoma-Cutrer has already become a Sonoma Valley tradition.

Shuck Yeah! Get your tickets here! Enjoy the sunshine & the good times!

The food fare only embellishes the bright occasion. Even in the modern world of innovative mobile cuisine, San Francisco’s Oyster Shuck Truck stands out. The menu features Po’Boy sandwiches with battered/fried oysters, shrimp or catfish, ceviche as well as a raw bar of oysters on the half shell. The mobile Big Easy-inspired menu also includes grilled fish tacos and legendary grillers, medium-sized oysters prepared on the grill and then laid upon fries. Though the menu reflects a New Orleans palate, the Shuck Truck crew hand-selects all oysters and fish for its menu directly from west coast sources.

If it seems a little decadent to enjoy fresh oysters on the half shell while relaxing at Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, just imagine how guests will feel this year when the Oyster Shuck Truck is joined by Cousins Maine Lobster, another innovative mobile master of regional cuisine from, as they say Downeast, away!

A national sensation, the Napa Valley food truck rolls into the evening boasting a menu of lobster rolls, lobster tots, lobster bisque and, true to its Mainer roots, whoopie pies! Some years ago cousins Jimmy and Sabin hatched their empire in California as they reminisced about hours spent devouring fresh lobster while summering back east. Their nostalgia corresponded with the food truck boom. One Shark Tank investment later, the cousins were bringing fresh Maine lobster to sidewalks across America, including Napa Valley! As the nation’s purveyors of fresh “seabugs” the cousins have also emerged as major voices in the sustainable lobstering movement.

It’s hard to think of a better pairing then rosé, oysters and lobster. There certainly is no finer way to ring in spring. Sonoma-Cutrer’s Rosé of Pinot Noir takes its influences from Provence while preparing a classic, light and elegant wine that is prepared from 100% Russian River Pinot Noir fruit.

Like music of the 1970s, rosé is a perpetual favorite that often peaks in popularity but never goes out of style. Not only have the most revered food, wine and lifestyle magazines applauded the varietal’s smooth drinkability and spring-like tones, musicians have been calling out the lifestyle qualities of rosé recently. And, unlike most other wines, rosé is best enjoyed within just a few months of bottling. Finally, should you think rosé is fashionable only among millennials and rappers, no lesser arbiters of fine taste than the French are all in too, as 30% of wine consumed in France is rosé!

Of course Sonoma-Cutrer understands varietals are the spice of life, so Oysters on the Terrace guests will also enjoy a newly released Sauvignon Blanc while grooving to the equally diverse sounds of Fleetwood Mask. Oysters, lobster, rosé, Sauv Blanc and several of the most beautiful pop tunes ever written? This is truly what the “crystal visions” of spring are made of.