Wisconsin Oven, in East Troy, builds large industrial ovens used in manufacturing. The company is expanding and hiring, seeking engineers and skilled-trades help. (Photo: Wisconsin Oven Corp.)

I'm the head of staffing for a local human resource and staffing company. A few weeks ago, one of our clients had an opening for a diesel mechanic position. We contacted nearly 800 potential candidates before finding one qualified, available worker.

One.

Sadly, this is becoming the norm. Qualified skilled machinists, mechanics, welders, electricians, plumbers and other trade workers are becoming so scarce that it’s time to sound the alarm.

In February, Gov. Rick Snyder announced his Marshall Plan for Talent – an ambitious initiative to spend more than $100 million over five years reconstructing the way Michigan approaches the preparation of its young people for the workforce.

The governor’s effort is a welcome one, but if the idea was to act before we found ourselves with a talent crisis, then it's too late. The crisis is already here.

Skilled trade and vocational jobs are in high demand as Baby Boomers are retiring, and there aren’t enough new workers with the skills to take their place.

There are thousands of skilled-trades job openings across various industries in Michigan. Skilled trades can provide a lucrative career path, with a many jobs offering a median wage of more than $20 an hour. With the increasing demand for these workers, their job prospects will be very promising.

Michigan’s Marshall Plan for Talent comes as several other states are already well underway with similar efforts. Georgia’s initiative is called the Quick Start program, while Ohio is using the Ohio Strong initiative to train people in skilled trades.

The Marshall Plan for Talent offers a welcomed shift away from the long-established choice between college and low-skill work, as if there are no paths in between. It will get educators, communities and companies partnering more closely on efforts to train people for good-paying jobs and connect them to opportunities. Gov. Snyder acknowledges that things won’t change overnight because of the Marshall Plan.

But Michigan companies like our clients are still struggling to find the talent they need today, and I shudder to think how many companies might seriously consider leaving Michigan to find better reservoirs of talent while the changes sought through the Marshall Plan take their time to come about.

AccessPoint, where I work, has been teaming up with educators and manufacturers to establish job training programs and help develop programs such as Vehicles for Change, which helps workers get to job sites, but we can’t do it alone. We are eager to do our part, because if change doesn’t come quickly and comprehensively, Michigan will begin to suffer shortages that will cause projects to take longer and cost more as supply and demand drive up labor costs.

Shelley Mitchell is executive vice president of staffing for AccessPoint, a human resources, staffing and recruiting firm based in Farmington Hills.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LGEpKd