CLOSE Starbucks stores around the country shut down for a day of anti-bias training, and these customers weren't bothered a bit. USA TODAY

Buy Photo Starbucks in Midtown off Woodward Avenue just before closing for bias training on May 29, 2018. (Photo: Frank Witsil, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Starbucks took what it called the "first step" on Tuesday toward changing how its 175,000 employees think about its customers — and each other.

By late afternoon, the coffee giant temporarily closed 8,000 corporate cafés nationwide for three to four hours of anti-bias training, which included remarks from executives, context on why racial bias is a problem and the chance for workers to talk about their personal perceptions and experiences.

Throughout the day, the training was a topic of conversation among employees and customers.

"I'm excited," Haley Miller, a busy employee at the Starbucks in Midtown Detroit said, just hours before the training started. "Discrimination, as a whole, is an issue, and we want to make sure everyone has a seat at the table."

The bubbly 22-year-old gestured with air quotes as she said "at the table" to emphasize she meant the words literally and figuratively in the context of the April incident that led to the training.

Last month in Philadelphia, two black men — Donte Robinson and Rashon Nelson — were accused of trespassing while they waiting for a business associate at a Starbucks. The manager called the police on the men. Their arrests were recorded, viewed millions of times, sparking outrage, apologies, legal settlements, and the company-wide anti-bias training.

To prepare for the training, Miller said the Seattle-based company sent training manuals and iPads to watch the corporate videos.

Customer Pamela Beltran-Mayan, 17, of Detroit praised the company’s efforts.

“I really like the fact that the company is in action and doing something about an issue that a lot of people don’t want to speak about,” said Beltran-Mayan, a Cass Tech junior who said she was one of the organizers of the recent March for Our Lives rally in downtown Detroit.

She sipped on a cold strawberry acia tea while studying. Beltran-Mayan said she stops at the Mack and Woodward Starbucks almost daily.

“I thought what happened was really sad, especially because it’s a company I support,” she said. “If they hadn’t done something I wouldn’t continue to support them.”

Beltran-Mayan said she participated in a University of Michigan-sponsored training last summer focused on racial sensitivity. Diverse students from across metro Detroit came together over a series of Saturdays and for a five-day retreat at the university.

“The series made us understand even little racism in everyday actions,” said Beltran-Mayan, who is Latino. As an example, she cited locking car doors when people see a Latino or African-American youth walking by. “That may not be intended to be racist, but it is,” she said.

Read more:

The training — which by one estimate, will cost Starbucks at least $12 million in lost profits — started at most stores at about 2 p.m. Detroit's Midtown location will easily lose $1,500 to $1,800 by closing early Tuesday, an employee said.

Tariq Gardner, 22, of Highland Park was among a number of people who visited the Starbucks on Mack and Woodward throughout the evening only to discover it was closed. He said he was hoping to get a cold drink with a gift card his father had given him for his May 7 birthday.

Gardner, a Detroit drummer and University of Michigan student, who is black, said he has mixed feelings about the closing.

"It's for a good reason, but I also feel it to be excessive,” he said. “That employee shouldn’t have called the police on those brothers. There should be a no-tolerance racism policy. But I don’t know that the business needs to shut down.

“I don’t know how much one day of training is going to do.”

That's the question now: Will the training work?

Some employees interviewed after the training praised it.

“It was really informative, actually,” said Shanae Pruitt, 24, who has been a barista at the Midtown Starbucks for two years. “I had my doubts going in because it’s such a huge issue to tackle. But they had a way of making a big-scale issue small-scale and manageable.”

Pruitt, a black woman, said she knows what it feels like to be discriminated against. “As a woman of color, I’m followed around in stores and I have to deal with that all the time,” she said. “It makes me feel less of a person. I work really hard for my money so when I go somewhere and want to invest my money I want to be respected.”

She said she’s excited about the training and looks forward to her next shift on Thursday.

Phoenix Sky, 25, of Detroit has worked at the Mack and Woodward store for a year and other Starbucks locations for about three years, she said. “I think it’s important that it was put out there in a way that encouraged us to talk about things that we may not be comfortable talking about,” Sky said.

Prior to the training, Starbucks made it clear that it aims to retool itself as a company that will address what it has called "racial and systemic bias," particularly as the percentage of Americans who consider racism a problem is on the rise. The percentage more than doubled from 28% in 2011 to 58% in 2017, according to the Pew Research Center, a Washington D.C., organization.

Beyond Starbucks, pressure has intensified on businesses and big corporations to do more to stop inequality, discrimination and racism. On the same day as the nationwide Starbucks training, ABC abruptly canceled its hit sitcom "Roseanne" after the show's co-creator, Roseanne Barr, tweeted a racist remark about Valerie Jarrett, a former adviser to President Barack Obama.

Customers at a Starbucks in Royal Oak near Woodward and 13 Mile offered varying opinions of whether Tuesday's training would ultimately be effective.

Drew Akroyd, 49, of Bloomfield said he was skeptical of whether it could adequately address the wide range of situations employees face.

"I don't necessarily think it will work because every case is unique," he said. "We all make bad judgments at times."

Still, Akroyd said, he didn't see a downside to offering it.

"I think it's needed," said Eric Taylor, 40, of Royal Oak. "It's just good so that some people who may not know that certain things may offend people would become educated. It's a good gesture, and I hope it will work."

Buy Photo Eric Taylor, 40, of Royal Oak, at a Starbucks off Woodward in Royal Oak on May 29, 2018. He said he is hopeful that the Starbucks training will make a difference. (Photo: Frank Witsil, Detroit Free Press)

He said that the atmosphere in society seems increasingly polarized and political rhetoric has emboldened people to say and do things that are offensive and hurtful.

"Businesses like this need to step up, and let employees know that it won't be tolerated," he said. "For me, as an African-American male, it's rough going to places and constantly be scrutinized and facing fear for no reason."

A decade ago, Starbucks closed stores to teach baristas to make espresso.

But, Tuesday's training wasn't on the technical aspects of coffee making. It, the company said, was an attempt to affirm "Starbucks is a welcoming place for everyone," and emphasized elevating what one executive has called "the human spirit."

To shape the bias training, Starbucks sought advice from experts, including former U.S. attorney general Eric Holder; Sherrilyn Ifill, president and director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, and Heather McGhee, president of the public policy organization Demos.

"All customers deserve our respect and fair treatment every day," Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson has said, promising to make Starbucks more diverse, equitable and inclusive. "We will invest — again and again — in our teams so they can deliver a great experience to every customer."

Contact Frank Witsil: 313-222-5022 or fwitsil@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IY5HcW