By StoryStudio

































Image 1 of / 9 Caption Close Image 2 of 9 Image 3 of 9 Image 4 of 9 Image 5 of 9 Image 6 of 9 Image 7 of 9 Image 8 of 9 Image 9 of 9 Stars of Food, Wine, and Music Perform at Pebble Beach Food & Wine 1 / 9 Back to Gallery

The best music festivals entice us to see all sorts of performers, from established rock stars to up-and-coming acoustic geniuses. The same can be said about premier food and wine festivals, where guitars are replaced with ganache and malbecs take the place of microphones. The Monterey Peninsula has hosted several of the most memorable extravaganzas in pop music history, at which Jimi Hendrix and BB King cemented their status as legends.

Like the finest festivals of any genre, the 11th Annual Pebble Beach Food & Wine event features marquee names and stars in the making, in addition to outstanding sommeliers and a chorus of fabulous wineries. Step inside the posters and take a closer look at some of the stars performing April 5–8 when the concert transforms into a cornucopia.

With 100 chefs performing at PBFW, it’s hard to decide who gets top billing, though Daniel Boulud is a likely candidate. Born in Lyon, France, Daniel redefined French cuisine when he opened his eponymous restaurant, DANIEL, on New York’s Upper East Side in the ’80s. Today the Culinary Institute of America’s 2011 “Chef of the Year” prepares his recipes in 13 restaurants from Montreal to Singapore.

Alex Guarnaschelli understands culinary royalty well, as the daughter of legendary cookbook editor Maria Guarnaschelli. Alex, who will lead the “Chase Private Client Presents Interactive Dinner with Alex Guarnaschelli” on the Saturday night, one of PBFW’s premier events, worked in Guy Savoy’s Michelin three-star kitchen in Paris and at DANIEL before opening the wildly popular Butter Restaurant in New York. Epitomizing the contemporary celebrity chef, Alex appears on several syndicated cooking programs and writes a weekly food-based column on People.com.

The stagecraft of contemporary cook-off reality programs rivals that of the world’s great rock concerts. These spectacles have also elevated the culinary arts to huge popularity, thanks in part to talented personalities such as Elizabeth Falkner. The award-winning chef has competed in and judged the Iron Chef franchise multiple times. A cuisine crusader known for her boundless enthusiasm, Elizabeth will lead a “Goldilocks & the Top Chef Bears” lunch at PBFW that will have guests moving to the groove of the modern masters of the kitchen stage.





If the ’60s and ’70s represent the Golden Age of rock and roll, the new millennium has definitely ushered in a gilded era of culinary arts. Chef Angie Mar exemplifies this modern era, a rising star who melds diverse traditions to make very bold statements of her own. Raised in Seattle among pioneering Chinese cuisine chefs, Angie established her reputation working with whole animals at New York’s Beatrice Inn. She then bought the fabled restaurant, renovated it, and quickly earned a two-star review from the New York Times. She was also chosen one of Food & Wine’s “Best New Chefs for 2017.”

Like Mar, Falkner, and Guarnaschelli, Melissa King represents a rock star in the making: she’s an outrageously talented chef who understands the hard work behind becoming a brand. She trained at several Michelin-starred restaurants and then created her own technique of melding hyper-local Bay Area ingredients with Asian flavors. As a Whole Foods Market Chef Ambassador, Melissa’s reach stretches far beyond her kitchen. She speaks frequently on many topics such as women’s empowerment, environmental protection, and food education, as well as—naturally!—entrepreneurship.

Stars and rising stars of the kitchen are hardly the only players to take the stage at Pebble Beach Food & Wine: 100 sommeliers also claim plenty of spotlight. Fusing an encyclopedic knowledge of their subject with the ability to convey the subtleties of grapes and vintages to the general public, there are few talents more exceptional than that of the sommelier.

Musicians are known for their precocious ways, and so too Sasha Hagenlock. Sasha started her own catering company when she was just 18 years old! She specialized in intimate dinner parties, and it was at one of these gatherings that a guest suggested she would make a great sommelier. Ten years later, she serves as sommelier and wine buyer for Calistoga Ranch.

Like cooking and musicianship, the understanding of wine requires a lifetime of study. Master Sommeliers are charged with absorbing this vast subject with impeccable precision, a challenge that would overwhelm most of us. Sian Nagan, wine director for Chicago’s celebrated Alinea Restaurant, is one of several Advanced Sommeliers at PBFW who are currently studying with the Court of Master Sommeliers.

Of course, it wouldn’t be a Monterey Peninsula festival without some actual rock stars—musicians who share a passion for performance and discovery with their culinary and sommelier brethren. Few occupations mirror each other as closely as chef and musician. Whether by plate or song, both are judged repeatedly, one course or tune’s failure erasing previous glory due to the lofty expectations of their audience.

Citizen Cope understands the importance of exerting this artistic freedom, departing the comforts of major label representation to form Rainwater Recordings in 2010. As sole producer, he created “The Rainwater LP” to great reviews. He’ll appear on the Saturday night at “NoMad Supper Club Featuring Citizen Cope.”

Like the finest artisans, soul musician Allen Stone believes it’s an honor to present his talent to the public. Stone will appear at the Friday “NoMad Supper Club Featuring Allen Stone.” His comments describing the essence of performance could have come as easily from any of the celebrated chefs and sommeliers at the 11th Annual Pebble Beach Food & Wine. “You’ve got to be incredible careful about it, and really put all your heart into the message that you’re sending out to the world.”

Don’t miss the opportunity to experience the message of music, food, and wine in Pebble Beach, April 5–8.