CLOSE The Flint water crisis promises to be a major issue in the 2018 Michigan governor's election. Paul Egan, Detroit Free Press

Water running down a metal drain. (Photo: Hortos, Getty Images/iStockphoto)

It couldn't have been just the switch in the source of the water that caused the 2014-15 Genessee County Legionnaires' disease outbreak that sickened 90 people and killed 12, a report released Tuesday from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services suggests.

Rather, the state's top health officials say that following a lengthy investigation, only one source of contamination was found that explains the majority of the increase in cases — a common exposure at McLaren Flint Hospital.

"No other large building with high-risk plumbing was identified as a common source of exposure," said MDHHS spokeswoman Angela Minicuci, noting that the department also investigated contamination at other large-scale, high-risk facilities such as health care centers, grocery stores, shopping centers and long-term care facilities.

For the study, the MDHHS completed the histories of 83 of the 90 people who had Legionnaires' disease in 2014-15. Of them, 51 had exposure to McLaren Flint Hospital.

"Of the 12 deaths associated with this outbreak, 10 of them had exposure to McLaren Flint," said Minicuci. "That's a pretty startling number."

The Legionnaires' disease outbreak of 2014-15 took hold at the height of the Flint water crisis, when the City of Flint switched its public water source from Lake Huron to the Flint River. Crucial corrosion-control chemicals were not added to the water, which allowed lead to leach from older pipes, solder and fixtures within homes.

As evidence came to light that the water might be contaminated with lead, government emails show efforts among some government employees to discredit the claims and cover up the problem, rather than take action.

More than a dozen state employees were criminally charged for their roles in the water crisis, including state Health Director Nick Lyon and the state's chief Medical Officer Dr. Eden Wells.

Minicuci said the state's investigation of the Legionnaires' outbreak stopped before the City of Flint switched its water source back to Lake Huron in October 2015.

The outbreak ended, Minicucci said, "right about the time McLaren Flint super-heated their water system and they installed some secondary measures to protect against legionnella."

RELATED:

Michigan close to finalizing stricter lead rules for water

State of Michigan: No more free bottled water for Flint residents

Legionnaires' disease, which is a form of pneumonia caused by legionnella bacteria, is contracted when a person breathes in water particles or aspirates on contaminated water. The bacteria live in warm, wet environments and can commonly be found in water and soil.

The report found that no new cases of Legionnaires' disease within the Flint water system occurred after the week of August 15, 2015.

McLaren Health Care spokesman Kevin Tompkins said the hospital's leaders were surprised by Tuesday's report and its conclusions.

"It just sort of came out of the blue," Tompkins said. McLaren issued the following statement in response:

"We find the timing of the state’s release today to be an interesting coincidence as the first phase of the criminal proceedings against MDHHS leadership winds down. Initial review of the report reveals no new information regarding our community’s epidemic of Legionnaires’ disease in 2014 and 2015, but reflects the state’s normal pattern of attempting to shift liability away from those criminally charged."

Buy Photo Freeman Elementary School students line up to go back to class past cases of bottle water donated to their school on Thursday October 8, 2015 at the Flint school. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

McLaren's statement goes on to say that state health officials used flawed methodology to conduct the study, and failed "to account for the significant number of Legionnaires’ disease cases that had no affiliation with our hospital."

The remaining cases that were unable to be tied to McLaren, Minicuci said, perhaps "didn't properly report an exposure, we weren't able to identify the source in a case investigation, and it could also be that they were exposed elsewhere.

"In 2014, the delay between when a case became ill and when they were interviewed was pretty substantial. We stepped in as a department in 2015 and worked with Genessee County Health Department to interview cases so we had a much more thorough case investigation to identify sources, so it could be two-pronged. It could be someone didn't properly report an exposure, we weren't able to identify source in a case investigation, and it could also be that they were exposed elsewhere."

McLaren also said the MDHHS officials failed "to account for potential exposure to legionella outside of the home or hospital setting — a myopic focus that distorts the analysis and deflects attention away from the municipal water system; ignores the growing consensus among scientific researchers that the switch to the Flint River in April 2014 was the root cause and trigger of the dramatic increase in Legionnaires’ disease diagnoses in Genesee County in 2014 and 2015 — a conclusion that is reflected in peer-reviewed articles published in respected scientific journals."

The journals and peer-reviewed articles the hospital system referenced were published in the the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences and in Environmental Science & Technology Letters. One study was co-authored by Marc Edwards, the environmental engineering professor from Virginia Tech who helped uncover the lead contamination problem in Flint.

Minicuci pointed out, however that "if the water source and corrosion were a major contributor (to the Legionnaires' outbreak), then there would have been more cases associated with other high-risk facilities than just McLaren. ... You would expect to see more facilities that are high risk on Flint water having commonalities with exposure, and we did not observe that. The only source we identified was McLaren Flint."

Buy Photo The water tower of the Flint Water Treatment Plant is seen on Monday March 21, 2016. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

In an e-mail to the Free Press, Minicuci added: "It’s unfortunate that this hospital system continues to ignore crucial details regarding the outbreak in Genesee County directly linked to their facility. Our report was released when it was completed. Due to difficulties caused by the Protective Order that McLaren Flint requested, subsequent data sharing issues, as well as new information that was gathered regarding the 2014 and 2015 cases, this review was not completed sooner.

"The facts are very clear in this comprehensive analysis of the cases and do account for other sources that were identified during the case investigations. The fact remains that the only common source that has been identified that explains the majority of the increase in cases is McLaren Flint Hospital. Rather than shifting liability or even accusing McLaren Flint, we followed the evidence and remain committed to providing thoroughly vetted and accurate information on this issue."

Contact Kristen Jordan Shamus: 313-222-5997 or kshamus@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @kristenshamus.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xr8VEO