If you’re an insect, probably the worst thing that could happen to you is that you get eaten. It’s a generally unpleasant experience, plus from an evolutionary perspective it means the end of your genetic line, which as we all know, is the real tragedy.

But for some species of insect, getting eaten doesn’t have to mean the end for your potential progeny. New research suggests that some insects might have evolved egg shells hard enough to survive passage through the digestive systems of birds, meaning the experience of becoming avian dinner might be more of an advantage than a disaster.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

A group of Japanese researchers hypothesized that some insect eggs might be able to survive being eaten by birds, and decided to test their hypothesis with the eggs of a particular species of stick insect. They fed the insects to birds and examined the droppings, and found that—just as they suspected—some of the eggs survived the process completely unharmed.

This is undoubtedly good for insects that are prone to getting eaten, because at least this way their offspring will survive. But the researchers suggest that this mechanism might even help the species in the long run, as the eggs will be spread over a much larger region than the species could get to by itself.

Even though the insect dies, the eggs can still survive, growing in a completely different location. Kobe University

Many plant species adopt a similar strategy, actively attracting birds with delicious fruits and benefiting when those birds then drop seeds in a large area. Stick insects haven’t evolved to be as enthusiastic as fruits about being eaten, but they likely benefit just as much. There’s an exciting possibility for future research in this area, exploring how stick insects used this strategy to spread throughout the world.

“We'd like to investigate whether similar genetic structure of stick insects can be found along birds' migration flight paths,” said study author Kenji Suetsugu, “and whether there are genetic similarities between stick insects and plants that rely on birds for seed distribution.”