subaru

THREE'S A CHARM May 28 Author: Jack Walsworth Subaru has been operating without a three-row crossover since it killed off the Tribeca in 2014. The new Ascent plugs the hole.



JUST ARRIVED: 2019 Subaru Ascent May 28 We look at the 2019 Subaru Ascent, and compare it with the 2018 Ford Explorer.



Doll sees another record year ahead for Subaru May 21 Author: Jack Walsworth Subaru continues on its record-setting sales roll of the past several years, as Tom Doll steps up to the role of CEO.



Turbo is key for Subaru's big new crossover Ascent May 21 Author: Jack Walsworth The 2019 Subaru Ascent, the newest nameplate in the automaker's lineup, relies on a newly developed engine and transmission.



Subaru, Toyota team up for Crosstrek Hybrid May 21 Author: Jack Walsworth Subaru of America plans a plug-in hybrid version of the hot-selling Crosstrek subcompact crossover.



Crosstrek becomes new workhorse for Subaru May 19 Author: Jack Walsworth The Crosstrek, which began life as a lifted Impreza hatchback in 2012, has turned into a sales workhorse for Subaru of America.



Profit drop in once reliable N.A. drags down Subaru May 14 Author: Hans Greimel North America, long the earnings engine for Subaru, suddenly turned into a drag on global profits amid spiraling incentives due to increased crossover competition.



Subaru plans plug-in hybrid Crosstrek May 14 Author: Jack Walsworth Subaru of America plans a plug-in hybrid version of the hot-selling Crosstrek subcompact crossover.



Softening North America hits profits at Subaru May 11 Author: Hans Greimel Subaru profits declined in the latest quarter amid steeper competition in the United States and falling sales at home where the company was engulfed in a faulty vehicle inspection scandal.



Vehicle design contributes to pedestrian death toll, study says May 8 Author: Eric Kulisch Front-crash prevention systems, better headlights and SUV design improvements are ways automakers can contribute to reducing pedestrian deaths, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety said.



Subaru launches Ascent output at Indiana plant May 7 Author: Jack Walsworth Production of the 2019 Subaru Ascent, Subaru of America's long-awaited three-row crossover, commenced Monday at the automaker's Indiana plant.

