The man who posted the now-viral video of a black woman and an Orthodox Jewish man clashing aboard a packed subway train says he “regrets” sharing the clip on social media.

“Didn’t think this video would go as viral as it has. I myself have been called racist just for posting, which is weak, but no matter,” Twitter user @chrisfrench_ tweeted Tuesday – days after posting the footage.

“I regret posting now, because everyone has run rampant with the ‘angry black woman’ narrative, and it’s really disheartening,” the tweet continued.

The nearly two-minute clip begins in the middle of the heated confrontation aboard a Bronx-bound 4 train.

“You said I’m racist so you tell me what I’m being racist towards … because you’re Jewish and I said if a Jewish family got on here, somebody would have got up. That is not a racist statement. That is a factual statement,” the woman can be heard yelling at the man as they both stand on the moving train.

The man in the video has been identified as Yossi Wolfe, a 31-year-old Wall Street Journal software engineer.

The woman, whose identity was not immediately known, could be heard shouting over Wolfe in the video, saying, “You need to learn the difference between race … Judaism is not a race. It is a religion.”

After Wolfe told the woman to “calm down,” tensions rose.

“No, I need to calm down now because I’m schooling your a–,” the woman says. “You guys think you’re so f—king smart, but guess what? I’m gonna teach you a lesson on this f—king train today.”

She continues: “We are different. Understand that. You know why? Because your people treat my people different in our community!”

Wolfe later went on Twitter to say that an “elderly lady did make an effort to defuse the situation.”

“After a while, the lady who was screaming let us all know that the reason why she was in such a bad mood was because her husband was arrested that day,” Wolfe said in the tweet.

The video, which Twitter user @chrisfrench_ posted on May 24, has collected more than 178,000 views on Twitter.