A Mexican playboy with amnesia (Eugenio Derbez) goes on a misadventure with a woman (Anna Faris) hired to clean his yacht in the comedy "Overboard" (May 4). (Photo: DIYAH PERA)

Variety, as they say, is the spice of life.

Just not at the movies.

This summer is filled with remakes and sequels, even more so than most. It’s all over the map, too, with some odd choices — Denzel Washington and Meryl Streep star in their first sequels. You’d think they’d have better things to do.

There is some original fare sprinkled throughout, too. As always, dates are tentative.

SUMMER PREVIEW: Number of sequels is ridiculous

OPENED THURSDAY

'Solo: A Star Wars Story'

Alden Ehrenreich plays Han Solo before he grows up to be Harrison Ford (OK, not exactly, but you get the idea). Ron Howard came on board late in the game as a replacement director, so that’s interesting. And if you’ve seen the “Teddy Perkins” episode of “Atlanta,” you’ll watch Donald Glover (who plays Lando Calrissian) in anything.

JUNE 1

'Action Point'

Johnny Knoxville plays a daredevil — go figure — who opens a theme park with his friends. If some bones aren’t broken, it’ll be a disappointment.

'Adrift'

Sam Claflin and Shailene Woodley play an engaged couple who embark on a romantic sailing trip in "Adrift." (Photo: MATT KLITSCHER/STXFILMS)

Shailene Woodley and Sam Claflin play a couple who set out on a sailing trip, only to run into one of the worst hurricanes in history. Based on a true story.

'How to Talk to Girls at Parties'

Aliens invade the London punk scene in the 1970s. If nothing else, you can’t say there are no original ideas anymore. With Elle Fanning and Nicole Kidman.

'First Reformed'

Writer-director Paul Schrader's portrait of a troubled small town Dutch Reform pastor (Ethan Hawke).

JUNE 8

'Hereditary'

June 8: Milly Shapiro (from left), Toni Collette, Gabriel Byrne and Alex Wolff confront some uncomfortable family truths in the horror-thriller "Hereditary." (Photo: James Minchin/A24)

Toni Collette plays a woman whose mother dies and leaves her some sort of horrifying curse or something.

'Hotel Artemis'

Jodi Foster plays a nurse who runs a secret emergency room in a near-future Los Angeles. Wonder if they take insurance?

'Ocean’s 8'

Sandra Bullock leads a crew of women in an attempt to pull off a heist at the Met Gala. Bullock plays the sister of George Clooney’s character in the previous “Ocean’s” movies. So it’s basically that, with women, including Cate Blanchett, Dakota Fanning, Olivia Munn and Anne Hathaway. Cool.

JUNE 15

'Incredibles 2'

This image released by Disney Pixar shows characters, from left, Bob/Mr. Incredible, voiced by Craig T. Nelson, Helen/Elastigirl, voiced by Holly Hunter, Dash, voiced by Huck Milner, Jack Jack and Violet, voiced by Sarah Vowell in "Incredibles 2," in theaters on June 15. (Disney/Pixar via AP) (Photo: AP)

It's dicey territory to make a sequel to one of Pixar’s all-time best films. But Brad Bird wrote and directed, and the gang’s all here again. Still, remember when Pixar was more into originals?

'SuperFly'

June 15: Jason Mitchell (left) and Trevor Jackson in a scene from the remake of "Superfly," by Director X. (Photo: Quantrell D. Colbert/CTMG Inc.)

Remake of the 1972 blaxploitation film, starring Trevor Jackson. Going to be difficult to top the Curtis Mayfield soundtrack, though.

'Tag'

Former classmates set up an elaborate game of tag that involves traveling all over the country. Don’t we already have “The Amazing Race”? Good cast, though, including Jon Hamm, Rashida Jones and Jeremy Renner.

JUNE 22

'Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom'

June 22: Owen (Chris Pratt) meets a T. rex in "Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom." (Photo: Universal Pictures)

There are no end of stupid ideas to take us back to that stupid island. This time a volcano is about to blow (there’s a volcano?) so Bryce Dallas Howard and Chris Pratt have to rescue the dinosaurs, who doubtless see them as tasty snacks.

JUNE 29

'Sicario: Day of the Soldado'

Really sorry to see that Emily Blunt isn’t back for the sequel, but Josh Brolin and, most importantly, Benicio Del Toro, are. Cartels are trafficking terrorists across the border.

'Uncle Drew'

Dax (Lil Rel Howery, center) leads an aging group of hoopsters (including Chris Webber, Nate Robinson, Lisa Leslie, Shaquille O'Neal, Kyrie Irving and Reggie Miller) in the comedy "Uncle Drew" (June 29). (Photo: QUANTRELL D. COLBERT)

The Pepsi commercial becomes a movie, with Dax (Lil Rel Howery) entering a team of geezers in the Rucker Classic tournament in Harlem. Lots of former NBA and WNBA stars, lots of makeup. Would still rather see a documentary about the real Rucker league...

'Under the Silver Lake'

Andrew Garfield plays a man who becomes obsessed with the murder of a billionaire and the kidnapping of a girl. It’s from metro Detroit native David Robert Mitchell, who made the great “It Follows.”.

JULY 4

'The First Purge'

A prequel that tells us how the Purge came to be, because who wasn’t clamoring for that? The bigger question is, what is Marisa Tomei doing in this?

JULY 6

'Ant-Man and the Wasp'

Hope van Dyne (left, Evangeline Lilly) joins Scott Lang (Paul Rudd) in the superhero game in Marvel’s “Ant-Man and the Wasp” (July 6). (Photo: Ben Rothstein / BEN ROTHSTEIN)

Paul Rudd returns as Ant-Man and Evangeline Lilly joins in as the Wasp, saving the world and avoiding swatters. The first film was underrated and, sadly, the lowest-grossing Marvel film, so kudos for even making the thing.

JULY 13

'Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation'

Dracula (voiced by Adam Sandler, left) and friends hit the high seas for fun in "Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation" (July 13). (Photo: SONY PICTURES ANIMATION)

Mavis (Selena Gomez) arranges for Dracula (Adam Sandler) to take a cruise. One bright note: Steve Buscemi returns as Wayne, the werewolf exhausted by his many cubs.

'Skyscraper'

Can only Dwayne Johnson save us? This time the ridiculous premise is Johnson as an FBI hostage team leader and veteran who assesses security for skyscrapers. He gets framed for a blaze in the world’s safest one, in which his family is trapped. He needs that giant ape and flying wolf from his last movie, sounds like.

'Eighth Grade'

Acclaimed Sundance drama about an angsty 13-year-old making her way through the last week of middle school. (The movie also plays the Cinetopia Film Festival, which kicks off Thursday.)

JULY 20

'The Equalizer 2'

Of all the movies Denzel Washington has made, is this the one you really wanted a sequel to? Me neither. He must have, though — it’s the first sequel he and director Antoine Fuqua have ever made.

'Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again'

Young Donna (right, Lily James) forms a band with her best friends Rosie (Alexa Davies) and Tanya (Jessica Keenan Wynn) in the musical sequel "Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again" (July 20). (Photo: Jonathan Prime / JONATHAN PRIME)

And Meryl Streep joins the sequel madness for her first one ever. With more singing.

JULY 27

'Blindspotting'

Daveed Diggs stars as an ex-con trying to reconnect with his ex (Janina Gavankar) in the comedy/drama "Blindspotting" (July 27), which explores race and class in Oakland. (Photo: LIONSGATE)

Daveed Diggs and Rafael Casal co-wrote and star in a film making some noise on the festival circuit, about a couple of friends in the gentrifying Bay Area. (The movie also plays the Cinetopia Film Festival, which kicks off Thursday.)

'Mission Impossible — Fallout'

July 29: Tom Cruise is back as superspy Ethan Hunt, hanging on for dear life, in "Mission: Impossible - Fallout." (Photo: Paramount Pictures)

OK, without looking at any information, I’m guessing Tom Cruise does spy stuff and performs his own insane stunts. Let’s have a look. Yep, looks like that’s about the size of it.

'Teen Titans Go! To the Movies'

The TV show is good (it’s minor-level superheroes as teenagers). For the movie, they’re bringing in bigger names heroes, and some notable stars to supply the voices (Nicolas Cage finally gets to be Superman, Halsey as Wonder Woman, etc.).

AUG. 3

'The Darkest Minds'

Teens develop powers; adults, naturally, imprison them. A group of teens escape, and sci-fi thrills ensue, presumably. Based on the Alexandra Bracken novel.

'Christopher Robin'

The film stars Ewan McGregor as an older Christopher Robin, who thinks back to his storied days hanging out with Pooh and company. (Photo: Deseret News Hive)

Ewan McGregor plays the grown-up Christopher Robin, who gets a visit from his childhood pal Winnie the Pooh. Marc Foster (“Finding Neverland”) directs. Pretty interesting, actually.

'Mile 22'

Mark Wahlberg plays an American intelligence officer who has to smuggle a police officer out of the country.

'Searching'

John Cho plays a father whose 16-year-old girl disappears. The entire film takes place on computer screens. Yeah, it’s been done, but that setup did make for one of my favorite episodes of “Modern Family,” so I’m willing to give it a try.

'The Spy Who Dumped Me'

Mila Kunis and Kate McKinnon inadvertently wind up doing spy stuff after Kunis’ boyfriend dumps her (he was a spy, unbeknownst to her). Sounds stupid, but those two are funny, so who knows?

CLOSE Break out the popcorn, because the summer of 2018 brings the return of the Avengers ("Infinity War"), Deadpool, the Incredibles and an island full of dinos. USA TODAY

AUG. 10

'Dog Days'

LA residents are brought together by their “lovable canine counterparts,” according to the press materials. Let me know when it’s their “mangy rabid mutts.”

"Alpha" premieres August 17. (Photo: Columbia Pictures)

'The Meg'

Jason Statham vs. a 70-foot shark. Hey, at least it’s not a remake. I mean, there’s never been a movie about a killer shark before. (We’re going to need a bigger joke.)

'Blackkklansman'

Based-on-a-true-story account of an African-American police officer who goes undercover in the Klu Klux Klan. It's being hailed as the return to form of director Spike Lee.

AUG. 17

'Alpha'

A survival story set in — um, the Ice Age. Albert Hughes directs.

'Captive State'

Aliens have invaded Chicago; now, 10 years later, people are either collaborators or dissidents. Among those people are Vera Farmiga and John Goodman.

'Crazy Rich Asians'

Economics professor Rachel Chu (Constance Wu) learns her boyfriend comes from a world of wealth in the romantic comedy "Crazy Rich Asians" (Aug. 17). (Photo: SANJA BUCKO)

Kevin Kwan’s novel, about three rich Chinese families preparing for a wedding, gets the big-screen treatment.

'The Happytime Murders'

Let’s just go with the press synopsis here, because it sounds pretty swell: “When the puppet cast of an ’80s children's TV show begins to get murdered one by one, a disgraced LAPD detective-turned-private eye puppet takes on the case.” The cast includes Elizabeth Banks and Melissa McCarthy.

'Juliet, Naked'

Annie (Rose Byrne) is stuck in a rut with boyfriend Duncan (Chris O’Dowd), who is an obsessive fan of obscure musician Tucker Crowe (Ethan Hawke), who is unexpectedly thrust into the couple's life.

AUG. 24

'Slender Man'

The urban legend that’s made its way into real news stories becomes a movie, about a tall, thin figure who haunts children.

'A.X.L.'

Family-oriented adventure about a down-on-his luck teenage bike rider, Miles (Alex Neustaedter), who stumbles upon an advanced, robotic, military dog named A.X.L.

AUG. 31

'Kin'

An ex-con (Jack Reynor) and his adopted teenage brother (Myles Truitt) are on the run from, among others, James Franco. Who wouldn’t run?

'The Little Stranger'

A country doctor (Domhnall Gleeson), is ensnared in the haunted past of a patient's family.

Reach Goodykoontz at bill.goodykoontz@arizonarepublic.com. Detroit Free Press staff writer Steve Byrne contributed.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IM4V73