CLOSE Hartland senior Mitchell Cotten talks about playing two sports while coping with the April 2 death of his father. Bill Khan, Livingston Daily

Mitchell Cotten, the top player on Hartland's golf team, learned the sport from his father, who died on April 2. Cotten has been playing golf and lacrosse this spring. (Photo: Bill Khan/Livingston Daily)

HARTLAND — Mitchell Cotten can’t play golf without remembering his father.

For the Hartland High School senior, golf and the dad who passed down his love for the sport will forever be intertwined.

“Golf’s really been something that was special to him,” Cotten said. “It was something he taught me. I’ve actually never had a golf lesson, because my dad was always like a second-hand swing coach for me.

“So, it’s a really strong connection for me and golf, because he’s the one who interested me in the game.”

Golf is a mental game, requiring an intense focus on each and every shot. If the mind begins to drift, even a little bit, it’s going to be a rough day on the course.

Which makes Mitchell Cotten not only such an impressive golfer, but a remarkable young man.

He has lived his last two months of high school bearing a burden that no one should have to endure during one of the best times in life.

The lives of Cotten and his family were forever changed the morning of April 2 when the body of his father, Norman Cotten Jr., was found inside a burned car behind a closed elementary school in Pontiac.

Mitchell Cotten (Photo: Bill Khan/Livingston Daily)

Mitchell was preparing for a spring as a dual-sport athlete, returning to lacrosse after a year’s absence while also playing his second season on the golf team. He was also part of Hartland’s Distributive Education Clubs of America team that qualified for an international competition to be held three weeks later in Atlanta.

As if that didn’t keep him busy enough, Cotten maintained a 3.9 grade-point average and took college courses for two semesters at the University of Michigan-Flint.

In the immediate aftermath of his father’s death, a highly driven young man found it difficult to keep up with his demanding schedule.

“It’s been real tough,” he said. “School’s definitely been really tough. It’s just really tough sometimes to find motivation for the day.”

Cotten considered skipping the trip to Atlanta for the DECA competition, but his mother said he didn’t want to let down teammates, Jessica Barnes and Alan Wheat. The trio ended up finishing in the top 10 in sports and entertainment operations. The project was on the Kensington Junior Golf Association.

MORE HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS

► Howell to open 2018 football season in Big House

► Roundup: Hartland, Howell set up lacrosse rematch

► Bolstered by bottom of lineup, Hartland wins KLAA golf tourney

“He debated whether to go or not,” his mother, Nancy, said. “We sort of talked about it and thought, ‘This was your plan, life does go on, you have to keep moving, your dad wants you to do this.’ It was tough initially. He felt he couldn’t go, but was happy he did.”

Cotten’s decision to play two sports this spring became a blessing in ways he never anticipated. After the death of his father, he was surrounded by two strong support systems, rather than just one. Part of his ongoing healing process was being able to take weekend trips to Ohio with both teams.

“The biggest thing I’ve learned is you’ve got to have people around you,” Cotten said. “You’ve got to have a support system. These guys, my teammates, my friends, my coaches, they’re that support system for me. Without them, I don’t know where I’d be.”

Mitchell Cotten has tied the Hartland nine-hole golf record of 33 three times this season. (Photo: Bill Khan/Livingston Daily)

On the golf course, Cotten is one of the top players in the state.

He has tied the Hartland nine-hole record of 33 three times on the Eagles’ home course at Dunham Hills. In the KLAA tournament last Thursday at Salem Hills Golf Club, he shot 1-under-par 71 to finish second individually and lead Hartland to first place.

Cotten averages 35.63 for nine holes and 76.67 for 18.

Nathan Oake, Hartland’s golf coach and DECA advisor, is amazed by Cotten's ability to stay focused in the midst of tragic circumstances.

“It’s a heck of a curveball to be thrown in life,” Oake said. “I don’t think any of us have any idea, exactly, what it would feel like to be Mitchell right now. But he has the unconditional support of his teammates and his coaches and the community and classmates.

"That’s kind of what Hartland is. It’s never easy, but I would think that surrounding him with a bunch of positive people can help prop him up and move him on with the right direction in life. That’s definitely what he’s shown so far.”

Several times this season, Cotten has played a golf tournament the first part of the day, then joined the lacrosse team for a night game. There haven’t been many conflicts, but golf takes precedence if one arises. After an impressive debut in his first year of high school golf last year, Cotten earned a golf and academic scholarship to Northwood University in Midland.

Mitchell Cotten returned to lacrosse this spring after taking a year off to play golf for the first time last year. (Photo: Bill Khan/Livingston Daily)

Cotten was on the varsity lacrosse team as a freshman and sophomore before switching to golf last year. The lacrosse team reached the state semifinals last season and is among the top contenders for the state title this year.

He wanted to play one last time with lacrosse teammates with whom he’s played since fifth grade. The possibility of winning a state championship was also intriguing.

The lacrosse team is a close-knit group of life-long friends who have rallied around Cotten.

“He’ll always be in our hearts,” senior Jake Gallaher said. “Any time in life, after the season ends even, we’ll be there for him always.”

“It’s tough,” said Hartland lacrosse coach Garnet Potter, who has coached Cotten since fifth grade. “I don’t know what to say sometimes, but that we’re there for him. He’s gone on trips with us this year. It’s been good for him. He’s a great kid. He’s going to do good things and he’s going to be a great father one day himself.”

In addition to playing golf, Mitchell Cotten is a member of a Hartland lacrosse team that is a state championship contender. (Photo: Bill Khan/Livingston Daily)

Cotten couldn’t be involved in two sports with more diametrically opposed cultures. Golf is a gentleman’s game in which competitors congratulate each other for making a nice shot. Lacrosse is an often-brutal sport in which players get away with things that are obvious penalties in other sports.

“I’ve always played contact sports my whole life, whether it’s basketball, football or lacrosse,” Cotten said. “So, that’s what’s second nature to me. In lacrosse and other sports, when you’re getting really excited, you try to pump yourself up.

"In golf, it’s kind of reverse – you’ve got to calm yourself down. It’s been a big learning curve for that. But I love going back to lacrosse and getting hype with the guys.”

Mitchell is one of three boys in the Cotten family. Zach is a 2012 Hartland graduate who is completing a degree in finance at Eastern Michigan University. Nick, a sophomore at Hartland, has muscular dystrophy.

A GoFundMe account was set up to help with handicap renovations made to the home and medical help related to Nick’s condition. As of Tuesday, $40,826 had been raised toward a goal of $80,000.

“Everybody is handling things, including myself, in their own way,” Nancy Cotten said. “They’re all three very different kids. Mitchell has always been one who doesn’t do well with a lot of idle time. He likes to fill his time. When he does come home, he can shut down and just sort of have some time here.”

Cotten could remain busy with his two sports until June 9, the final day of the state golf tournament and the day of the lacrosse state championship game.

Hartland will play a regional championship lacrosse game against Howell at 6 p.m. Wednesday at Parker Middle School. The regional tournament for golf is Thursday at Dunham Hills, with the top three teams and top three individuals from nonqualifying teams advancing to the state tournament.

After that, he will have more time to be alone in his thoughts and reflect on his father’s death.

“It’s good to have a little more time for healing, because he has been so busy,” his mother said. “It’s a double-edged sword to some degree. We’re thankful he’s been busy and wishing he had a little more down time.”