But David Farmer, who led the Maine effort for universal background checks in 2016, said that supporters of gun rights can be particularly persuasive once a concrete proposal is unveiled. In Maine, polling support for the measure declined between introduction and the final vote, before failing, 52-48.

“We know for a fact we lost the argument at the kitchen table and the bar and the bowling alley,” he said. “The gun enthusiasts were talking to their friends and relatives and neighbors. They felt about it in a way that was so passionate that they won those one-on-one encounters, and they were very successful in bringing in people to their side.”

The enthusiasm of gun rights activists doesn’t show up just in personal conversations. Over the last few decades, they have been more likely to speak to their legislators or give money to gun-related political groups, according to research from the Pew Research Center. Those actions have sent a signal to legislators that there is robust opposition even to laws that show strong public support in polls.

John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety, a group that favors stricter gun laws, thinks the energy imbalance is shifting. He said the group’s donations, membership and Instagram follows have all risen since the Parkland shootings, a suggestion, he said, that members of the public who back Everytown’s agenda are increasing the intensity of their support.

He also noted a string of recent state legislative successes on gun restrictions for domestic abusers, including some in Republican-led states, and the recent passage of a law in Florida that allows judges to temporarily confiscate guns from people who are judged a threat. (On Friday, an N.R.A. spokesman declined to offer the organization’s views of public opinion on gun measures.)

Mr. Farmer said he is also optimistic that his side can do a better job of persuading voters in the future. He said he’s particularly heartened by the recent groundswell of activism by young Americans. He said he sees parallels between their energy and that of the opposition.

Several polls since the Parkland shootings show a rise in support for gun restrictions, including some that go beyond universal background checks . President Trump’s proposal to arm schoolteachers has received more lukewarm support — with fewer than 45 percent of the public supporting it in two recent surveys. It will take some time to see whether the trends hold.