Interviewing can be intimidating for everyone at all levels, especially for those just graduating from college. One of the reasons why interviewing can be anxiety provoking is the perception that it’s all one sided with the employer having all the power. To put an interview in its proper context, it’s a discussion where both of you desire to find a great match.

Acquiring strong interview skills will serve you throughout your entire career, it’s best to learn everything you can about interviewing when starting out. As a job candidate without much experience you’ll probably compete with those who have more experience, that’s just part of the marketplace. Don’t shrink from competition rather learn how to talk about what you do know as it relates to the job.

College graduates often make the mistake of answering interview questions in a matter of fact way that sounds too structured rather than adding context that gives a good example of their skills. Naturally, you need to time your answers without rambling, yet make your answers memorable.

Think about it like this, all college graduates with the same degree will share similar knowledge and most will answer interview questions the way same, by mentioning skills that sound alike. That’s an average interview that can easily be labeled mediocre to most interviewers.

If you want to make the most of an interview here are six tips that will turn a typical interview into an unforgettable meeting.

Study the company and research their products, services and mission statements before the interview. You’ll make a great impression if you are knowledgeable about the employer, it shows you took the time to gather information and will be reflected in your answers. Practice the art of rapport building. Success is often measured by your ability to communicate in a clear concise way. The way you form your answers with stories and examples helps the interviewer see a broader picture of you as a person combined with your skills. Emphasize what you have done in gaining experience not what you are lacking. Experience can come from a variety of sources, volunteering on projects, part time work or internships. Find out what skills are important to the interviewer then discuss what you have done that matches what they are looking for. What did you do in your practicum or school projects that allowed you to get hands on practical experience? Write down the skills you used and accomplishments then practice saying them out loud to describe what makes you unique. Practice listening to the interviewer. Many times, a candidate will misunderstand a question and proceed down one path when the interviewer was asking something different. Be sure to verify what the interviewer is asking and avoid guessing. Ask for the next steps when the interview is ending, this information will provide you with a time frame of how long the process will take. Do this and you’ll be more proactive rather than always on the side of guessing what steps the employer is taking. Avoid discussing salary/benefits before an offer is made. In starting out you most generally pay your dues for experience, often what you think you should be paid is not always based on real life work experience.

In closing, always follow up with a thank you note to the interviewer(s). Being grateful and gracious are character building activities that will keep you in a positive light for future endeavors.

The ability to express yourself using accomplishments with results will serve you well as you enter the market place. This phase of your career is all about gaining experience and displaying a good attitude to grow and learn.

As a college graduate, how would you describe your interviews? What have learned so far?