Actress Taraji P. Henson on May 24 slimmed down her Chicago residential property portfolio, selling her three-bedroom, 2,159-square-foot condo unit on the 38th floor of a Near North high-rise for $1.429 million.

The sale comes seven months after Henson, who stars as Cookie Lyon in the Chicago-based Fox drama “Empire,” upsized in the same building, paying $1.925 million in October for a larger unit on the 36th floor.

Through her Skyline Trust, Henson, 47, paid $1.408 million for the 38th-floor unit in May 2015, shortly after “Empire’s” first season aired. Henson listed that unit in November for $1.525 million. She cut her asking price to $1.475 million in January and went under contract in March.

Features in the unit that Henson sold include 2-1/2 baths, an east-facing balcony with views of Lake Michigan, refinished hardwood floors, crown moldings, custom-built soffits, custom lighting, electric shades in the living and dining areas, blackout shades in all bedrooms and a custom-built master bedroom closet.

Henson’s listing agent, Stephanie Maloney of Homesmart Connect, declined to comment on the sale.

In October, Henson traded up to the larger, 36th-floor unit, which had not been publicly listed at the time that she bought it. Henson purchased that unit from a land trust whose beneficiary could not be determined.

Henson continues to own a three-bedroom, 3,188-square-foot midcentury modern-style house in Los Angeles’ Hollywood Hills area, which she purchased in May 2016 for $6.45 million.

Bob Goldsborough is a freelance reporter.

Related: Lincoln Park mansion once owned by former TV news anchor Diann Burns is on market for $5.275 million »

Ernest Mayo-designed Tudor mansion in Evanston sold for more than $2.3 million »

Jimmy Butler buys two River North condos for more than $1M apiece — then puts one back on market »

A peek inside TV personalities Bill and Giuliana Rancic's Gold Coast mansion, on the market for $6.8 million.

Billionaire Ken Griffin, Illinois’ richest man, paid $58.75 million in November for the top four floors in the recently completed Near North condominium building at 9 W. Walton St., known as No. 9 Walton. Here's a look at the building.