Most parents of teenagers would never imagine that their kids could become victims of domestic abuse, but remarkably, it is an increasingly common occurrence. One young girl shared a very personal account of her experience with teenage dating violence in "48 Hours" Live to Tell: Sophia's Secret

Learn more about Sophia's story – and where help is available:

WHERE TO GET HELP

National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-SAFE (7233) | 1-800-787-3224 [TTY]

Love is Respect: 1-866-331-9474 | 1.866.331.8453 [TTY]

RAINN: National Sexual Assault Hotline: 1-800-656-HOPE (4673)

WARNING SIGNS

Resources on the web

Love is Respect provides resources for teens, parents, friends and family, peer advocates, government officials, law enforcement officials and the general public. All communication is confidential and anonymous.

YWCA: offers support for women and girls through sexual assault and domestic violence programs, and more

BreaktheCycle.org engages, educates, and empowers youth to build lives and communities free from domestic and dating violence.

Futures Without Violence has led the way and set the pace for ground-breaking education programs, national policy development, professional training programs, and public actions designed to end violence against women, children and families around the world.

National Center for Victims of Crime is the nation's leading resource and advocacy organization for crime victims.

The Date Safe Project is committed to being the nation's leading organization for teaching how "asking first" makes all the difference in creating safer intimacy and in decreasing occurrences of sexual assault.

ChooseRespect.com focuses on preventing dating abuse by educating 11- 14-year-olds about healthy relationships.

PAVE empowers students, parents, and civic leaders to end sexual violence with prevention education promoting respect of oneself and each other. Additionally, PAVE creates a safe space for survivors to thrive after trauma.

RAINN The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network is the nation's largest anti-sexual assault organization.

The Lauren Dunne Astley Memorial Fund was created by her parents. It's mission is to promote dynamic educational programs, particularly those in the areas of the development of healthy teen relationships, the arts and community service. | "48 Hours:" Loved to Death

Dating Abuse Stops Here, or DASH, was created to inspire and inform a community. The site offers fact sheets, information, and resources about teen dating abuse to help teens, their parents and friends understand more about this growing problem.

That's Not Cool addresses ways teens can work against dating abuse in their everyday actions.

The National Online Resource Center on Violence Against Women is a comprehensive and easily accessible online collection of full-text, searchable materials and resources on domestic violence, sexual violence and related issues.

WomensLaw.org provides easy-to-understand legal information to women living with or escaping domestic violence.