A recurring question long has loomed over Southern Illinois University: Should the two-campus system remain unified or should Carbondale and Edwardsville each go it alone?

The issue often bubbles to the surface in times of strife and has led to at least four failed attempts by the Illinois legislature to split the schools since the 1970s.

Now, lawmakers are once again taking aim at the Southern Illinois University system on the heels of an intensifying and unusually public battle over how the central office advocates for and distributes state funding to each campus.

Southern Illinois’ trustees have scheduled a special meeting on Wednesday to discuss several bills that could dramatically change how the university is run. The outcome could compel the board to depart from its publicly neutral stance.

At issue is how money is divided between the flagship campus in Carbondale and its sister school in Edwardsville, which receives less funding even though it has grown to nearly match Carbondale’s enrollment.

“It is difficult to wear two different hats,” Edwardsville Chancellor Randy Pembrook said. “On one hand, we’re talking about what is in the best interest of the system, but the trustees live in a certain area, and they’re human. They are part of a community and these universities are very important parts of their towns.”

The money battle at Southern Illinois started in April when Edwardsville leaders appealed to trustees to recalculate how it splits state money between the campuses. They argued that Edwardsville was being routinely underfunded as its enrollment grew. Officials asked the board to transfer $5.125 million from Carbondale to Edwardsville in the 2018-19 school year.

The measure failed in a 4-3 vote that fell along the trustees’ ties to each campus. An eighth trustee abstained.

But legislators in the Metro East area outside St. Louis were not satisfied, and they introduced a swath of bills in Springfield to reorganize the Southern Illinois system. Some legislation seeks to dissolve the system, split the campuses and install campus-level oversight boards. Short of achieving an SIU divorce, other bills proposed an equal state appropriation and a reconstituted board that evenly represents both campuses. That legislation is still pending in the Illinois House.

By historical standards, none of this seemed out of the ordinary. But that was before a professor from Carbondale, Kathleen Chwalisz, wrote an opinion piece in The Southern Illinoisan that quoted emails from Southern Illinois President Randy Dunn crudely dismissing the concerns of Carbondale supporters who questioned a revamped funding formula.

The proposal, Dunn wrote, “is simply to shut up the bitchers from Carbondale who are saying loudly we shouldn’t even be doing the $5.125M at this time,” he wrote in an email that was obtained by Chwalisz through open records laws.

Two Carbondale-area legislators excoriated Dunn on the House floor and called on him to resign. A Tuesday editorial in The Southern Illinoisan called on trustees to fire Dunn.

“I am, of course, dismayed and disappointed by what appears to be an active, deliberate effort to undermine the Carbondale campus and, by extension, the entire SIU system,” Carbondale Chancellor Carlo Montemagno wrote in his university blog after the emails were revealed. “The process and lack of transparency did not serve us or our colleagues at Edwardsville. I must add that the disrespect to Carbondale’s faculty, staff and community is especially disturbing.”

Dunn apologized for his choice of words but rebutted claims of favoritism.

“I think if anyone has been denigrated in this situation, it has been me for doing my job and working for the best interests of all the campuses in the SIU system — which I was hired to do,” Dunn wrote in a statement. “To say that I have contempt for my neighbors, colleagues, friends and co-workers is insulting and is not worthy of being suggested against someone who shares a long history with this institution.”

Five former Edwardsville chancellors then wrote an open letter supporting independence for the campus.

The Edwardsville campus “at one time benefited from being part of the SIU System but that is no longer the case,” the letter stated, signed by Nancy Belck, Julie Furst-Bowe, Stephen Hansen, Vaughn Vandegrift and David Werner. “If the board of trustees cannot live up to its fiduciary responsibility to the citizens of Illinois and the university at Edwardsville, it is time for a change.”

Amid the frenzy, the debate began to reach a broader audience. A T-shirt emblazoned with “Carbondale bitchers” is for sale on Etsy.

Al Bowman, executive director of the Illinois Board of Higher Education, said that focusing on enrollment to determine state funding is overly simplistic.

“Enrollment provides really an incomplete picture of an institution’s finances,” Bowman said in an interview. “Medicine, law, architecture, certainly the Carbondale campus has some high-cost programs. Edwardsville has dentistry and some other high-cost programs, as well. We think the analysis needs to be nuanced enough to take that kind of thing into account.”

There is precedent for disbanding university systems, or at least trying to.

A 2014 essay for Inside Higher Ed noted that University of Wisconsin-Madison and University of Oregon both unsuccessfully tried to break from their school systems in 2011. The Oregon University System eventually dissolved after a 2013 state law allowed public universities to establish their own institutional boards. All seven schools in that group took advantage and were operating independently by summer of 2015.