tesla

Tesla hits parked Calif. police vehicle; driver blames Autopilot May 29 The driver of a Tesla Model S crashed into an unoccupied, parked police vehicle in Southern California and the driver told investigators the Tesla was in "Autopilot" mode at the time.



Tweet for tweet May 28 Elon Musk and the UAW went toe-to-toe on Twitter last week. Tesla's CEO attacked the union, which is trying to organize workers at the company's plant in Fremont, Calif.



Toyota still No. 1, Mercedes passes BMW for No. 2 in ranking of most valuable car brands May 28 Author: Douglas A. Bolduc Toyota held on to its title as the world's most valuable car brand for the sixth year in a row while Mercedes passed BMW to finish second for the first time in an annual brand ranking.



Tesla scrambles jets to boost Model 3 battery output May 25 Tesla has flown six planes full of robots and equipment from Europe to California in an unusual, high-stakes effort to speed up battery production for the Model 3 electric sedan. The move underscores Tesla CEO Elon Musk's urgency to get a grip on manufacturing problems that have hobbled the launch of the high-volume Model 3.



Tesla settles class action lawsuit over 'dangerous' Autopilot May 25 Tesla reached an agreement to settle a class action lawsuit with buyers of its Model S and Model X cars who alleged that the company's assisted-driving Autopilot system was "essentially unusable and demonstrably dangerous."



Tesla seeks to dismiss securities fraud lawsuit May 25 Tesla asked a court to dismiss a securities fraud lawsuit by shareholders who said the electric vehicle maker gave false public statements about the progress of producing the Model 3 sedan.



Musk tweet violates U.S. labor law, UAW alleges May 24 In a complaint, the UAW alleges that Tesla CEO Elon Musk violated the National Labor Relations Act by threatening to take away employee stock options in retaliation for engaging in protected union activity.



First Shift: U.S. mulls new auto-import tariffs May 24 U.S. mulls new auto-import tariffs; Musk vs. the media; Report: Apple to convert VW vans into AVs; Volvo to make more XC40s; Startup to make EVs at old Mitsubishi plant.



Elon Musk, in latest Tweet storm, channels Caesar, Soviet era media May 24 Elon Musk, barely a month after his behavior on an earnings call shook investor confidence, hit out on Twitter with a series of combative posts this week, leaving many scratching their heads at best and prompting scrutiny from labor regulators at worst.



Musk's stock option tweet may invite U.S. labor board complaint May 23 The UAW has been Elon Musk's target for days of derision on Twitter, and his posts may open Tesla up to trouble with federal labor regulators



Tesla trims up to $14,000 off Model X in China after tariff cuts May 23 Tesla has cut the price of the Model X in China by up to $14,000 after Beijing announced tariff cuts for imported cars.

