Pat Shurmur has been The Great Communicator, determined to build relationships with every one of his players, which means he is the right man at the right time to put the New York Football Giants back together again.

The Post has learned that Shurmur, once he learns more about his players, plans on forming a Leadership Council to act as his liaison with the rest of the locker room. It paid dividends, you might remember, until the last few years, for Tom Coughlin.

Safety Andrew Adams, asked if there was a Leadership Council last season under Ben McAdoo, said: “We had captains (Eli Manning, Jonathan Casillas, Zack DeOssie), and then we had understood leaders who would say stuff.”

But nothing formal? “Not to my knowledge,” Adams said.

“We just kinda gravitated to 10 (Manning), a couple of other guys in the locker room,” Evan Engram told The Post, “but it wasn’t really appointed.”

A veteran committee that has the head coach’s ear and vice versa can make a difference during turbulent times.

The Post, willing to assist, nominates the following Giants to Shurmur’s 2018 Leadership Council.

WR Odell Beckham Jr.: It is mandatory that the highest-paid receiver in football deserves a seat at the table. No. 13 is beloved by teammates, and ownership and management are hopeful he is growing up. Beckham will embrace a leadership role. The seat will be waiting for him in the event that negotiations stall.

QB Eli Manning: A wealth of knowledge, wisdom and class. But you already knew that.

Long-snapper Zak DeOssie: A two-time True Blue Super Bowl champion like Manning. A second-generation Giant whose father Steve was on the Super Bowl XXV champions. A voice of reason and maturity who would represent the special teams.

LT Nate Solder: It is mandatory that the highest-paid offensive lineman in football (four years, $62 million) deserves a seat at the table. As good as it gets from a character standpoint, and a two-time Super Bowl champion in his seven seasons with the Patriots. Already tutoring Ereck Flowers, and willingly.

S Landon Collins: He’s had on-the-job leadership training, calling Eli Apple a cancer and irritating Shurmur by speaking about Flowers’ initial disenchantment with the team signing Solder. But once he gets it right, he’ll be an eloquent team spokesman, always at his locker, in good times and bad, with a chance to be a dominant safety.

DT Damon (Snacks) Harrison: The best run defender in football and a man’s man in the trenches. All about the team. Might prefer root canal to media sessions. A 29-year-old E. F. Hutton in the locker room and meeting rooms. Highly respected.

OLB Olivier Vernon: It is mandatory that anyone who was signed to a five year, $85 million free-agent contract two years ago deserves a seat at the table. Another strong, silent type. Dependable gladiator on game day. Highly respected.

LB Alec Ogletree: The new defensive signal-caller and former Rams captain. His brother-in-law will vouch for him. “I’ve known him probably since my senior year in high school,” Adams said. “He’s a good guy. Great football player. I’m happy he’s here. It’s gonna be exciting for us to play together.”

The Gang of 8. For Shurmur’s sake, hopefully eight is enough.