Griffin Dix never thought to ask if there was a gun in the Berkeley home where his 15-year-old son Kenzo was playing back in 1994.

He only discovered that the home did have a gun after Kenzo was accidentally shot by a friend during a playdate and his parents had to rush to the emergency room.

Unfortunately, Kenzo did not survive his injuries, and now his father is working with the ASK campaign to get other parents to ask the questions that never occurred to him until it was too late.

“We went home and had to tell my other son that his brother had died,” Dix said at a recent press conference, according to the East Bay Express. “I never considered that there might be a gun in the home where [Kenzo] went. I never thought to ask.”

ASK stands for Asking Saves Kids and is a joint campaign from the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Alameda County District Attorney’s Office.

“When your kids go to a friend’s house, or a neighbor’s house to play this summer, ask one simple question: Is there a gun in the home? Is that gun locked and is it unloaded?” Alameda County Assistant District Attorney Teresa Drenick said at the press conference.

The ASK program, in its 19th year, typically kicks off on the first day of summer, when children are more likely to be home, or in their friends’ homes and have the time and opportunity to access guns that are left unlocked and loaded.

That potentially deadly combination is a more common phenomenon then you might think. Drenick said one-third of U.S. homes with a child have a gun in them and nearly half are unlocked. One-quarter of parents with guns keep at least one of them loaded. Keeping a loaded gun unlocked is a prosecutable offense, she added.

That is likely of little consolation to the families of the 87 children accidentally killed by firearms, on average, each year between 2012 and 2014, according to a new report from the journal Pediatrics, which divided data on childhood gun violence between children aged 0-12 and those aged 13-17.

“The most common circumstance surrounding unintentional firearm deaths of both younger (60 percent) and older children (49 percent) was playing with a gun,” according to the report. “Older children, relative to younger children, more often died in incidents involving showing a gun to others and/or mistakenly thinking the gun was unloaded or the safety was engaged. A gun was mistaken for a toy in 16 percent of younger children’s deaths and in only 1 death involving an older child. Approximately the same percentage of deaths of younger and older children occurred while hunting or target shooting (14 percent and 17 percent, respectively). The majority of both younger and older children were fatally injured in a home.”

Drenick admitted in the press conference that asking the parents of your children’s friends if they have a gun in the home is awkward and I’ll admit that, much like Griffin Dix, it’s one that I never even thought to ask. But avoiding the question can be a fatal mistake.

“We know that this can seem to parents an embarrassing question or an overly intrusive question to ask,” Drenick said. “Think of it this way. If your child is not water safe and you’re sending them to play at a home where there’s a pool, you obviously would ask that parent, ‘Is the pool covered or will an adult be watching?’ If your child has a severe peanut allergy, you would always tell the parent about that allergy and make sure that your child is safe. Why should gun safety be any different?”