CLEVELAND, Ohio - Cleveland musician Madeline Finn has been creating a quite buzz around town recently. She's the leader of The Whiskey Hollow, a popular rock band with a busy concert schedule and two excellent EPs to its credit: 2016's "X Waters" and 2017's "Greenhouse." More recently, Finn appeared on the current season of "American Idol," making it into Top 75 and earning a trip to Hollywood before being eliminated.

That alone would qualify Finn and The Whiskey Hollow for a spot on "The Cleveland Sessions," our new concert and video series presented by Miller Lite in partnership with the Music Box Supper Club and oWOW internet radio.

But at 24, Madeline Finn has many other notable musical achievements to her credit, going back nearly a decade.

"Maddie Finn" was also the name of her high school band, which won the Tri-C High School Rock-Off in 2010 -- the first-ever female-fronted group to do so.

As Maddie, she later fronted the pop-punk band Envoi, pushing them to national prominence with songs like "Ghost" and "From A Cage" building up millions of listens and views online.

"Maddie Finn ... if you Google that, all you find is my high school stuff," Finn said.

"So Madeline Finn is a cool, grown-up chapter."

Indeed.

The Whiskey Hollow features Finn on vocals and guitar, backed by bassist Holly Camp, guitarist Griffin Pereksta and drummer Tom Stankiewicz.

The Whiskey Hollow started as a solo project for Finn, and "X Waters" was primarily a solo record. Finn said that in the next year, you can expect a new single from The Whiskey Hollow, and a couple of singles from just Madeline Finn.

Finn said she loves working in a band, but craves her own outlet, too. She says she's written a batch of songs abut her grandparents and their experiences living around the world. In her spare time, she provides vocal coaching and production for other local bands, including Bro Dylan, The Sonder Bombs and Heyohwell.

And what about her experience on "American Idol"?

"It was so eye opening to what the music industry is like outside of Cleveland," she said. "We all live in this bubble that is Cleveland music, and we all sit here and pat each other's backs.

"When you go out into LA, it's super exhausting. You don't sleep a lot, and you don't eat a lot... [but] I got to learn so much. I got constructive criticism from awesome vocal coaches and Katy Perry."

The Whiskey Hollow was invited to perform three songs on the Music Box Supper Club's stage for The Cleveland Sessions, showcasing an older song ("Neat" from "X Waters"), a current song ("Wristwatch Wishes" from "Greenhouse") and a brand-new song ("Hell In A Heartbreak (Mexico Burrito)").

Check out the band's full performance in the video above. For the individual song videos and an exclusive, recorded interview with the band, click on the links below.

CLEVELAND SESSIONS: THE WHISKEY HOLLOW

You can also listen to The Whiskey Hollow Cleveland Session via podcast in the player below, or by downloading it HERE.

To subscribe to the Cleveland Sessions RSS podcast feed, click HERE.

MORE ON THE "CLEVELAND SESSIONS"

The "Cleveland Sessions" is presented by Miller Lite. It is a live-music concert series showcasing new music coming from the heart a and the fringes a of rock 'n' roll. The series is a partnership between cleveland.com, the Music Box concert club and oWOW internet radio and features recordings of special performances by bands from across the land.

You can check out previous episodes in the series at clevelandsessions.com. You can also subscribe to the videos on the "Cleveland Sessions" YouTube channel.

The Modern Electric, a Cleveland band that has won fans around the country with its brand of cinematic pop, is featured in Episode 1. Jon Langford's Four Lost Souls, a new band project from Chicago-based singer-songwriter Jon Langford, is showcased in Episode 2.

We've shot an episode with The Falling Stars, a new band from Cleveland rock veterans Chris Allen and Tim Parnin. Episode 4 features Seafair, a popular Cleveland band front by vocalist-keyboardist Chayla Hope.

We also did an early Cleveland Sessions interview session with Michigan-based rock band Greta Van Fleet, which has been named one of Rolling Stone magazine's "10 New Artists You Need to Know." Their new double EP, "From the Fires," was released Nov. 10 on Lava/Republic Records, with four new songs and four track's from the EP, "Black Smoke Rising." Their first single, "Highway Tune," was one of the hottest rock songs in the country during 2017.

Links to all of the Cleveland Sessions videos are below:

CLEVELAND SESSIONS: FALLING STARS

CLEVELAND SESSIONS: THE MODERN ELECTRIC

JON LANGFORD'S FOUR LOST SOULS: CLEVELAND SESSIONS

GRETA VAN FLEET: CLEVELAND SESSIONS

The Cleveland Sessions are also available as podcasts.

Download the iTunes podcasts HERE.

Access Google Play in the button below, or download the podcasts HERE