What if Lutz rather than Eaton had been Chrysler's CEO when Schrempp came calling. While Lutz regards the question as "almost impossibly hypothetical" he says,"I might have been in favor of the deal, but I don't think I would have been at that time." But if the deal had already happened, he believes he would have been able to face down his German counterparts.

LUTZ: I certainly would not have been the pushover that Bob Eaton was. I would have been much more active in protecting the interests of the company and frankly in pushing … the Daimler guys into some meaningful consolidation so that we actually made some money off of this thing by saving a bunch of money by sharing products and so forth.

There were amazing possibilities out there. All the things we could have done that weren't done. I would have behaved differently and Juergen Schrempp knew it and that's why — let's put it this way, I was still around for a few months, but I was told, "Don't bother coming in," because I was the person who could have eliminated all the BS going on in both sides. … I would have acted as a cultural bridge. Both Juergen Schrempp and Bob Eaton were very eager to see me depart.

HOLDEN: I wouldn't disparage Bob [Eaton], I was disappointed that he wasn't able or chose not to stay longer as the co-CEO [to] try and push the merger through [and achieve] more balance between the two sides. But the stuff he did when he came in '92 … he did a lot of really good stuff. He had a fresh eye on the company.

I think in hindsight you could say he could have been tougher at the time of the merger, but we were riding high … while he was there. He was good for the company.

STALLKAMP: The last, final decision we made — and Lutz and I were in on this — we were going to call it ChryslerDaimler. We kind of joked, because we knew this was going to be a hard sell. And Eaton kept telling all the Chrysler guys, "Don't worry; we're going to be Chrysler — ChryslerDaimler." And so I told people that, and they would ask, "How can you be sure of that?" And I said, "Well, it's alphabetical — C comes before D — we're going to be ChryslerDaimler."

People looked at me and thought I was absolutely crazy, and that it would never work. So, we're in the board meeting, we're all voting, and Eaton brings us out and brings Lutz and I into this little room, and he says, "Well, there's just one little hiccup. It's going to be DaimlerChrysler." And Lutz just rolls his eyes and takes his cigar and looks at me, and we just laughed. It was so predictable, because there was no way that it was going to be ChryslerDaimler, but we carried on that facade for quite a while. There are a million stories like that."

After Theodore left DaimlerChrysler to join Ford in 1999, he received a phone call from Schrempp's secretary.

THEODORE: She says, "Mr. Schrempp wants to meet with you at the Ritz-Carlton in Dearborn on such and such a day." I went to Ford CEO Jacques Nasser and said, "They called me up, and I don't really want to take this meeting." He said, "No, take the meeting, but tell them you left and that you're a competitor. You can't give them any advice."

Schrempp says to me, "Well, will you come back?" And I said, "No. I made my decision and I left."

Then he said, "Well, where have all the leaders gone?" And I said, "Well, a lot of the leaders have left."

"Like who?"

"Well, [Chrysler manufacturing chief] Denny Pawley's gone, Francois [Castaing] had left, [manufacturing specialist] Sham Rushwin left, others left — we lost a large portion of the management team."

He said, "What would you do? What's your recommendation for me?" And I said, "You're a competitor now. I can't give you any recommendations." And [Schrempp] says, "But, you know, what would you do?"

I told him: "I think you've got a pretty good assessment about Mr. Eaton."

[Schrempp] says, "Don't worry about Mr. Eaton; We have a plan for him." That's a quote: "We have a plan for him." He had a plan for Mr. Eaton, and that was kind of the story. It was shortly before they fired Stallkamp.

It could have been good, but it wasn't. That's the long and short of it. It's a great case of "how not to."

HOLDEN: We gave it every effort and we couldn't make it work.