By StoryStudio

Perched high above the fog in Sonoma County’s northwest corner, Rockpile Vineyards overlooks Lake Sonoma, where a clear blue expanse framed by lush rolling hills creates a postcard perfect vista. The sun warms the earth but the air up here is clear and crisp. A slight breeze ruffles neat rows of growing grapes.

Look closely and you’ll find ancient petroglyphs etched into the hilltop, artful mementos of the indigenous tribes that once lived near the rocky peak. The carvings date back 3,000 years—as old as the Great Pyramids of Egypt. Far older than the native Kashaya Pomo tribe that named the area “Kabe-chana”—which means “pile of rocks”—for the crop of rocks on the hill’s peak that are exposed and look like a pile of rocks.

In 1860, The area became home to a Pony Express stop. Soon trappers and homesteaders settled into the region for its abundance of wildlife and land for subsistence farming. “Rockpile,” as they began to call it, eventually became a sheep ranch, and stayed that way for centuries.

Then came an interesting plot twist: In 1965, Rockpile Ranch was purchased by three of the four lead actors from the primetime TV western Bonanza, along with Ron Chaney, grandson of famed actor Lon Chaney Jr.

It was an intriguing intersection of life and art, and the public looked on with interest. Local newspapers speculated that the property might become a new filming location for the show, but alas, the group’s ownership was foreclosed in 1971 and the ranch sold back to the former owner.

Things remained quiet until 1982 when the lake was built. But over the years, even with a fruitful lake now for use in the area, grazing herds greatly reduced the area’s topsoil, making it far more difficult to sustain traditional agriculture or sheep ranching. Then, one day, a professor of plant biochemistry named Rod Park came along and changed Rockpile’s legacy.

You see, there is one crop that thrives in difficult conditions where other plants fail, and that crop is wine grapes. Environmental stressors cause the vines to force energy into their fruit, creating intensely flavored grapes perfect for turning into high-end wines. Park, an aspiring viticulturist who’d already successfully grown a Cabernet Sauvignon vineyard on Napa’s Howell Mountain, purchased the ranch and in 1991 planted Rockpile’s first modern vineyard.

It was an ambitious project, to be sure. The property was rural and remote, far away from any major cities and devoid of any developed water sources. Folks scoffed, but Park persisted. He knew the area’s soil, weather, sun exposure, and altitude would blend to create the perfect formula for growing premium grapes. And he was right.

In the years that followed, Park not only developed the ranch into a highly successful vineyard, but also helped establish the Rockpile American Viticultural Area (AVA), now recognized as one of the nation’s most important producers of premium red wine grapes. In the process, he created a national name for his sought-after Rockpile grapes—and for himself, as an expert in viticulture and enology.

Then Park passed away in 2013, and the Rockpile’s next era began. Husband-and-wife team Ken and Diane Wilson, already vineyard experts with a winemaking history dating back to 1993, purchased Rockpile Vineyards in 2014. Determined to keep the region’s legacy alive, Diane teamed up with two more of the region’s most acclaimed winemakers—Antoine Favero and Chris Barrett—to produce a brand-new crop of Rockpile-grown wines.

Today, the vineyard is known for producing some of the finest Zinfandels in Northern California. Rockpile’s offering includes two Cabernet Sauvignons, one Meritage, one red blend, and nine Zinfandels, two of which are named in homage to the region’s fascinating history: Petroglyph Zinfandel and Park’s Zinfandel. Nine of the appellation’s 13 wines won Gold Medals in the San Francisco Chronicle’s recent wine competition.

And now, there’s a new way to enjoy grapes grown at the storied Rockpile Vineyards. The Wilsons’ beautiful new tasting room opened in downtown Healdsburg just last month, and offers a fitting tribute to Rockpile’s colorful history. With a chic rustic design scheme and a cozy interior, the conveniently located venue offers daily tastings from 11 a.m.–6 p.m., perfect for whiling away an afternoon.

Want to try a sip of Rockpile’s legacy yourself? Check out their website, catch up on Instagram, and visit the tasting room today at 206 Healdsburg Ave., Healdsburg, CA 95448.