Much of the internet has spent the last 24 hours tweeting about Laurel vs. Yanny, and that includes the United States Air Force. But USAF flew right past the debate and into deep Twitter controversy with its take on the Laurel-Yanny auditory illusion.

I can’t believe the @usairforce just deleted the best tweet ever tweeted on Twitter dot com. SMDH. pic.twitter.com/iDkGXVilB4 — Jerry Dunleavy (@JerryDunleavy) May 17, 2018

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

On Thursday morning, the service's official Twitter wrote: "The Taliban forces in Farah City #Afghanistan would much rather have heard #Yanny or #Laurel than the defeaning #BRRRT they got courtesy of our #A10." Many hours later, the @USAirForce account apologized for the earlier missive and said it had removed the tweet.

We apologize for the earlier tweet regarding the A-10. It was made in poor taste and we are addressing it internally. It has since been removed. — U.S. Air Force (@usairforce) May 17, 2018

The overly eager airman who tweeted this morning was referring to the ongoing battle in Farah, where yesterday Afghan security forces backed by the #BRRRT of American air raids drove the Taliban out of the center of town one day after it had made its way in. About 300 Taliban soldiers were killed. According to Al-Jazeera:

"Farah city remains under government control, and the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces, supported by US Forces-Afghanistan airpower, are on the offensive against the Taliban," Lieutenant-Colonel Martin O'Donnell, a coalition spokesman, said.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Even so, the Air Force's tweet demonstrates once again what a tricky business it is for organizations and brands to get their piece of the viral meme of the moment without posting something that will be lambasted for poor taste.

We're all dead and live in hell. The only possible explanation. pic.twitter.com/pHCCQ1THk6 — dan sinker (@dansinker) May 17, 2018

Just as predictably, USAF's apology and removal of the A-10 tweet has sparked its own counter-controversy, with most replies yelling back at the service for caving to political correctness and saying it shouldn't have apologized.

As always, there is only one solution: Never tweet.