By StoryStudio

﻿

Gas prices are climbing, so no better time than now for a stay-cation where you can experience the Seven Wonders of the [… drum roll …] the Seven Wonders of the San Mateo County Fair [cymbals crash]! For less than the price of a few gallons of gas, with a little imagination and a commitment to light-hearted fun, you can see the Peninsula’s annual extravaganza through new eyes. Sit back, relax with a chai tea or your favorite IPA, and take a virtual tour with us.

1. Our first stop is the Great Wall of Quilts. Softer than the Great Wall of China (which is made of stone and brick, after all) the Great Wall of Quilts at the San Mateo County Fair is a colorful textural wonder. Located inside the fair’s Taj Mahal (Expo Hall) you’ll find walls of quilts — upwards of 400 fine-needled masterpieces. Even if you have seen some amazing quilts, you have not seen them all. The quilts entered in this year’s San Mateo County Fair have never been shown here before. You’ll find appliqued quilts, embellished quilts, stenciled quilts, embroidered quilts — even modern quilts — from miniatures to wall hangings to bed toppers. You’ll also find quilts created for special challenges, including this year’s Red Fabric and Animal challenges. This is one of the largest quilt shows at any county fair in California.

Full of wonder? Get your tickets here!

2. The next stop on our Seven Wonders tour is Brazil, a vast South American nation, home to the 125-foot tall statue of Christ the Redeemer watching over the city of Rio de Janeiro. While you won’t find such a statue at the fairgrounds, you will be transported to Brazil when you enter the San Mateo County Fair’s lush Rainforest Adventure exhibit. While not as tall as the famous Redeemer, this wonder is wide — 6,500 square feet of green, home to some of the exotic animals, reptiles and invertebrates native to the Amazon backcountry. You’ll see magnificent colored macaws, a screeching spider monkey, slithering boa constrictors, crawling hairy tarantulas, a lurching cold-blooded iguana, a crawling forest tortoise, and one the most recognizable birds in Brazil, a perched toucanet. These Brazilian critters are joined at the fair by dozens of other animals from around the world.

3. On to Peru, home of Machu Picchu, a fifteenth-century Incan citadel set high in the Andes Mountains. As you marvel at the huge stone blocks and intriguing buildings at Machu Picchu, you’ll encounter an abundance of wildlife. The barriers that line the San Mateo County Fair’s livestock arena may not be quite as imposing or centuries old, but indeed here you will also find here furry and feathered creatures of every size, shape, and color. Most of the goats, rabbits, lambs, chickens, cattle, turkeys, and hogs have been expertly raised by youth members of 4-H and Future Farmers of America. And yes, just as you would find in Peru, there are alpacas — generally smaller than a llama (and not known to spit). You can pet and feed these gentle, fleecy animals in the Great American Petting Zoo, along with more than forty other animals, including miniature goats and donkeys, a deer, and yes, woolly llamas. (Stand back or bring a tissue!)

4. Chichen Itza is a 79-foot-high complex of Mayan ruins on Mexico’s Yucatán Peninsula. There’s a similarly monumental structure here on the Peninsula, the 90-foot-tall Super Shot Drop Tower. This ride is new to the San Mateo County Fair so let’s put this wonder in perspective. It’s over eight stories high. Twelve passengers are loaded into a circular seating station and are slowly lifted to the top of the tower. Once the passengers reach the top, the station is released in an accelerating freefall, plunging at a maximum descent speed of 29 miles an hour, with riders experiencing G-forces more than 3½ times normal. Those who prefer life at a slower pace can make their way to the bumper cars.

5. Centuries ago, the Colosseum in Rome was home to clashing swords and baying spectators who lined up to see gladiators in action. Gladiators often became celebrities and sex symbols. They were known to make Roman women swoon and their portraits graced the walls of public places. In the San Mateo County Fair’s Fiesta Hall you won’t find clashing swords, but you will find celebrities (some of them sexy), and some swooning fans. To stretch an already thin comparison, it was announced in 2017 that the newly-appointed director of Italy’s most famous landmark plans to open the Roman Colosseum to rock concerts. Cleary Italian officials have been monitoring the success of the San Mateo County Fair’s standing-room-only series!

San Mateo’s Fiesta Hall, by the way, is a massive 34,000 square-foot concert venue with 20-foot high ceilings and seats for nearly 2,000 concert-goers. The wonder of these concerts is that they are free with fair admission. Sheila E. opens the fair on June 9, followed by TLC, Sugar Ray, Pablo Cruise, Average White Band, and John Michael Montgomery. Los Yonic’s, Los Caminantes, and three other Latin artists close the fair’s annual run on June 17. While all these shows are free, Gold Circle admission ($40 in advance/$45 at the gate) provides admission to the fair, plus it guarantees you a premium reserved seat for the performance.

6. The San Mateo County Fair’s Taj Mahal is the 105,000-square-foot Expo Hall, home to the Fine Arts Galleria. The Taj Mahal in India is adorned with 28 different varieties of semi-precious and precious stones. The Fine Arts Galleria also features beautiful gems—more than 500 of them. The extraordinary exhibition of amateur and professional artists includes fine art glass, jewelry, ceramics, pottery and sculpture, works on paper and mixed media, oil, acrylic and watercolor paintings, photography and more. The Galleria also celebrates literary arts, such as poetry, short stories and memoirs. Among the many partners in the Fine Arts Galleria are the San Mateo County Arts Commission and University Art. New for 2018 is the Peninsula Museum of Art’s Bay Area Masters exhibit, which will feature unique, exquisite, and impressive works of art from professional artists living in the nine Bay Area counties.

7. And finally, let’s not forget Petra, a spectacular ancient archaeological site in Jordan’s sun-baked southern desert. The only thing close to the desert at the San Mateo County Fair is — well, nothing. So, let’s add an extra “s” to desert and talk about dessert! Yes, dessert is truly the Seventh Wonder of the San Mateo County Fair. The fair only comes once a year, so some consider dessert at the fair their one big annual indulgence. Ooey-gooey, fresh-baked cinnamon rolls topped with cream cheese frosting. Chocolate-dipped cheesecake on a stick, rolled in nuts. Funnel cakes topped with Bavarian cream. Deep-fried everything, including Twinkies and Snickers. Fresh strawberry shortcake. Oreo churros. The list goes on and on. Find some comfort in knowing that the fairgrounds covers more than 48 acres, so you’ll have plenty of opportunity to walk off those extra calories.

Visit the Seven Wonders of the San Mateo County Fair between June 9 and 17. And if you buy your tickets by June 8, you’ll save money with discounts on admission and unlimited ride wristbands. Save time at the gate—buy online at www.sanmateocountyfair.com. No passport required!

Check out our Facebook!