The 8th ICIS World Surfactants Conference Shifting consumer trends are shaping the industry May 9 - 11, 2018 // Hyatt Regency Jersey City // NJ, USA (Training Course: May 8)

platinum gold silver bronze full-section row-start row-end col-xs-12 Surfactants Awards| May 10, 2018 Designed to recognize excellence and innovation. Nominations for the 2019 ICIS Surfactants Awards are now open. We are delighted to announce that the ICIS Surfactants Awards will be returning on to Jersey City in May 2019, as part of the World Surfactants Conference. Designed to honor excellence, innovation and outstanding achievement, winners will be recognized in a ceremony at the end of conference day one.

Meet our 2018 Surfactants Awards winners:



2019 NOMINATIONS AND ENTRIES ARE NOW OPEN block-section row-start col-md-6 Nominations and entries are now closed. The 2018 Awards categories are: Product innovation

For the development of a new and worthwhile product. The product innovation should be already available on the market, and your reason for winning the award must be clearly justified. Sustainability

For a contribution in the field of sustainability, either a product, process or supply chain. The sustainable practice/process can be at any stage and scale but your reason for winning the award must be clearly justified. Partnership

For the delivery of an excellent business partnership. The partnership can be at any scale but your reason for winning the award must be clearly justified. Contribution

For an outstanding contribution to the surfactants industry. The contribution can be charitable, individual or business-related, but your reason for winning the award must be clearly justified. Technology innovation

For the development of a new technology or technological solution. The technology innovation can be at any stage of the process but your reason for winning the award must be clearly justified. Newcomer

For a high-achieving industry newcomer. The newcomer can have any scale of involvement in the industry but your reason for winning the award must be clearly justified. block-section row-end col-md-6 The 2018 ICIS Surfactants Awards judging panel included:

Neil Burns , Neil A Burns LLC

, Neil A Burns LLC Martin Herrington , IP Specialities

, IP Specialities Judith Taylor , ICIS

, ICIS Joseph Chang , ICIS

, ICIS Mike Fevola, Inolex 2019 judging slots available If you are an experienced member of the industry from any part of the value chain – feedstock supplier, surfactants manufacturer or end user – and you would like to apply to be a judge at the 2019 Surfactants Awards, please submit your entry here. Judges receive the entries in advance of the annual shortlist and come together to discuss the winners and runners up of each category. Judges receive a free place to the full 3 day event. Enter an Award Apply to be a judge full-section row-start row-end col-xs-12 colour-section register-section row-start row-end col-xs-12 center Make sure you take advantage of our preferential rate for loyal customers! The 2019 registrations are now open and the offer is available until May 25, 2018. Quote promo code WSC19PDO to receive the discount. View 2019 website Register Now block-section row-start col-sm-6 col-md-3 block-section row-mid col-sm-6 col-md-3 block-section row-mid col-sm-6 col-md-3 block-section row-end col-sm-6 col-md-3