The Stand Gastro Bistro in Birmingham will soon close to become Hazel, Ravines and Downtown, a new neighborhood restaurant from two originators of One-Eyed Betty's and Pop's For Italian in Ferndale. (Photo: Courtesy of Catalyst Development Co.)

Despite its name, the 5-year-old restaurant on the southwest corner of Woodward and Maple in downtown Birmingham won't stand much longer.

The Stand Gastro Bistro — already a bare-bones operation — will likely close in a matter of weeks to undergo renovations as it transforms into a brand new concept from two of the co-founders of Ferndale's immensely successful One-Eyed Betty's and Pop's for Italian restaurants.

But first, the new restaurant — to be named Hazel, Ravines and Downtown — must clear some bureaucratic hurdles.

The first came Wednesday night, as the Birmingham planning board approved a special land use permit, design review and final site plan review for the new restaurant, co-owned by former Kramer Restaurant Group partner Beth Hussey and her longtime executive, chef Emmele Herrold. The proposal still needs to clear the City Commission before the Stand can close and construction can begin.

The restaurant was still operating at least in name as the Stand on Tuesday afternoon, despite the lack of quite a few fixtures and tables and chairs from its main dining room. Many of them were auctioned off online in February, according to a listing with Michigan Restaurant Liquidations and Auctions.

Hussey and Herrold were both present Tuesday and doing their part of a management agreement they signed back in April that allowed them to quietly take over the space. The bar area was open for seating with a small menu of creative sandwiches and happy hour drink specials. The partners have been operating the restaurant under the old name to keep the liquor license from reverting back to the city.

Buy Photo The old dining room of the Stand Gastro Bistro in Birmingham sits empty as the restaurant prepares to shut down to become Hazel, Ravines and Downtown, a new neighborhood restaurant from two originators of One-Eyed Betty's and Pop's For Italian in Ferndale. (Photo: Mark Kurlyandchik, Detroit Free Press)

The two originally parted ways when Herrold left the Kramer Restaurant Group in the summer of 2016.

After a few random run-ins over the intervening 18 months, Hussey was also ready to leave the Kramer group by February and knew just the person to call for a new venture.

"She texted me not totally out of the blue, and she said, 'I think it's time we talk about getting the band back together,' " Herrold recalled.

The two met the next day and discussed Birmingham as an option.

By this point, the Stand had quietly transitioned to only doing private events. Founding chef Paul Grosz, who also runs the award-winning Cuisine restaurant in Detroit's New Center, had left almost a year prior.

"They just had no street presences," Hussey said of the Stand and its predecessor, the Italian restaurant Zazios. "You just did not know it was here."

The partners teamed up with Ron Rea of Birmingham-based Ron and Roman architects to add visibility to the highly trafficked corner through landscaping, lighting improvements and additional signage. (Some of these preliminary design elements will require additional city approval.)

The concept at Hazel, Ravines and Downtown — a casual, come-as-you-are neighborhood joint — is rooted in the location.

"We had come in here one time and taken some pictures and then our iPhone named the restaurant," Herrold said. "Beth's iPhone had named the album Hazel, Ravines and Downtown."

"Those are three neighborhoods that all come together right where this building was built," Hussey added. "The one thing we knew before we started the name game is that we wanted to be a neighborhood place, so it seemed very fitting."

The partners conceded the name was a bit wordy, but they're counting on the community shortening it to Hazel's, perhaps, or even H.R.D.

When completed, the former front vestibule will be converted into an open-air grotto with tiled floors and bistro tables where guests can grab a drink while waiting for a spot in the dining room.

The long walk to the dining room that was once lined with wine lockers will be converted into a grab-and-go market and morning cafe. It will open every day at 7 a.m. with coffee and "morning sundries," as Herrold called them.

Buy Photo Diners eat in the main section of The Stand Gastro Bistro in Birmingham on Monday December 16, 2013. (Photo: Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press)

"We're treating it as a good old-fashioned newsstand like you might see in New York," Hussey said.

The bar will be converted into a horseshoe with an open-shelved back bar, which anchors a whitewashed dining room that will seat 130 — about the same number as One-Eyed Betty's.

Two private dining rooms will be turned into four, with movable walls that can accommodate parties of 15 to 100.

"Birmingham is such a community," Hussey said, noting the lack of restaurants in town with private dining options. "With our concept being an unassuming and much more approachable place, we just think that private dining is going to rock."

The menus, too, are informed by the trifecta of neighborhoods in the restaurant's name. For example, the food menu will be split into three sections. Under "Hazel," you'll find familiar items like steak and potatoes or Caesar salad. "Ravines," is synonymous with "well-traveled" and will feature cuisines from around the world. "Downtown" is for trending items that will change frequently with the latest fads.

Buy Photo The Stand Gastro Bistro in Birmingham will soon close to become Hazel, Ravines and Downtown, a new neighborhood restaurant from two originators of One-Eyed Betty's and Pop's For Italian in Ferndale. (Photo: Mark Kurlyandchik, Detroit Free Press)

That format will also apply to the wine, beer and cocktails.

"It gives us the flexibility to do some really fun stuff with food but also just have a really kickass grilled cheese sandwich," Hussey said. "There's a little something for everyone. Birmingham is the kind of place where a couple will split a hamburger and a $250 bottle of wine. And we want to be the place where you would do that."

The restaurant will still have to clear the City Commission before going ahead with construction, but the partners are hopeful Hazel, Ravines and Downtown will debut by late summer.

Contact Mark Kurlyandchik: 313-222-5026 or mkurlyandc@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @mkurlyandchik and Instagram: curlyhandshake.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2Lr4XyD