CLOSE An exclusive making-of video for "Solo: A Star Wars Story" offers new footage, glimpses of alien creatures and droids, and peeks at colorful costumes. LUCASFILM

Droid L3-37 (Phoebe Waller-Bridge) is partner and co-pilot to Lando (Donald Glover) in "Solo: A Star Wars Story." (Photo: LUCASFILM)

This is the droid we’ve been looking for.

L3-37, the feisty assemblage of metal parts and artificial intelligence portrayed through motion-capture technology by actress Phoebe Waller-Bridge in “Solo: A Star Wars Story,” brings the blast of freshness that the rebooted “Star Wars” franchise has been moving toward.

Only she’s traveling at hyper-speeds of relevancy. And we’re impressed.

L3, as she's affectionately known, only has a co-starring role in the Han Solo origin story. But she lights up the screen every time she appears. And, in unexpected ways, she adds an edge and poignancy that helps prove, yes, there are good reasons for bringing back the venerated space opera other than box-office takes.

As co-pilot to a young Lando Calrissian (Donald Glover), L3 is nobody's possession. And she isn't shy about making that clear with a well-aimed quip. In a scene inside the Millennium Falcon, when Lando asks if she needs anything from outside the cockpit area, L3 fires back, "equal rights."

Review: 'Solo' gambles (and wins) by not being just another 'Star Wars' movie

More: Writer confirms Donald Glover's Lando Calrissian is pansexual in 'Solo'

Played via performance-capture by Phoebe Waller-Bridge, L3-37 is a droid very much into equal rights in "Solo: A Star Wars Story." (Photo: JONATHAN OLLEY)

The movie itself has the unenviable task of telling Han Solo’s origin story to fans who have Harrison Ford's take on the role imprinted on their brains. We all love Ford. Yet “Solo” does an respectable job of creating new pieces of the puzzle for a character frozen in the collective memory version of carbonite.

Alden Erenreich captures much of Solo ’s inherent bravado in a way reminiscent of Ford, albeit with more of a boy-band cuteness. Glover – whose epic, tragic “This Is America” music video has gone deservedly viral – pays fun homage to Billy Dee Williams' Lando. “Game of Thrones” regular Emilia Clarke, as Han’s youthful love interest, lends a British touch of class. And Woody Harrelson, as Han's mercenary mentor, is, well, Woody Harrelson, which is not a bad thing at all.

Then L3 enters the story line with a jolt and redefines a female robot for our era. Of course, you can't compare her on-screen presence to the work that’s been done by real women through the Time's Up and #metoo movements. Their courage and dedication are helping to topple powerful sexual harassers and putting a spotlight on gender inequality in the workplace.

That progress is happening now, not in a galaxy far, far away.

Still, L3’s abrasive, outspoken, unafraid-to-be-disliked attitude makes a tremendous impression because it's so different from past templates for women droids, which mostly have been thoroughly sexist and played for scares or laughs.

The prevailing classic archetype, the fembot, embodies the old Hollywood perception of actresses as window dressing, only with added technology. Think about the sexy robot assassins of 1997's “Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery" or the subservient droid-transformed housewives of 1975’s “The Stepford Wives,” a popcorn horror movie that spoke volumes on male fears of women’s liberation. Even Rosie the maid in the 1960s cartoon "The Jetsons" defines the limits of past female robots. They were either physical ideals without a mind of their own or cleaning machines.

This decade has introduced new subtlety, beginning with 2013's "Her." The bittersweet drama chronicles a man (Joaquin Phoenix) who falls for a computer operating system with a soothing voice (Scarlett Johansson) that soon outstrips him in intellect and sophistication.

Most recently, anger has been a predominant theme for female droids who've been used and abused, most stunningly in the current HBO series “Westworld." The righteous leader of a droid revolution at a fantasy theme park, Dolores (Evan Rachel Wood), transforms from gentle rancher's daughter to steely avenger with a thirst for blood. Is she justified in her actions? That question makes “Westworld” compelling, both as sci-fi gender wafare and cautionary morality play.

Whiich brings us back to L3, whose fully fleshed understanding of her subjugated place in the universe is remarkably played by Waller-Bridge, the creator/star of Amazon's "Fleabag" and writer/producer of BBC America's "Killing Eve."

L3 takes no guff from humans, even though she harbors a sweet spot for Lando (and even gabs with Clarke’s character, Qi'ra, about why a romantic relationship with him wouldn’t work). She knows she’s born to be a machine, but that definition of her is imposed by others, not harbored within her consciousness.

Deep inside, she wants to be treated decently, just like any other thinking being. Instead, she’s viewed by strangers as little more than space junk. And, sadly, that resonates in 2018, when too many people –- and one person alone would be too many –- are feeling emboldened to treat others as lesser-than, whether it's because of their gender, race, ethnicity or immigrant status.

For women, sexism has been a problem since, oh, the beginning of recorded time. But now, female voices are getting attention in ways that honestly seems revolutionary. And during L3's big scene, when – spoiler alert – she yells out “Rebellion!,” something clicks that relates strongly to 2018.

L3 is a freedom fighter, just like any ordinary person who's speaking out these days against actions and beliefs that just aren't right.

In short, her feminist credentials are impeccable, as are her humanitarian ones. So when’s her spin-off movie?

More: 9 things you must see at 'Star Wars' costume show at DIA

'Solo: A Star Wars Story'

Rated PG-13; sequences of sci-fi action/violence

Opens with some Thursday evening screenings

Contact Detroit Free Press pop culture critic Julie Hinds: 313-222-6427 or jhinds@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IvZetU