William “Nick” Collins and Wanda Jan Hill, who participated in the Northern High School walkout of 1966 as students, speak to members of Mosaic Youth Theatre of Detroit. The theater group's latest production, "Northern Lights 1966," is in honor of those who walked out to improve their school. (Photo: Lumumba Reynolds for Mosaic Youth Theatre)

Youth activism is, too often, misunderstood.

As a black youth organizer, I’ve heard it all: that I’m “rude and ungrateful,” that I “couldn’t possibly make a change,” that I was “wasting my time,” that there “had to be adults pulling the strings,” assumption after assumption about who I am and what I do.

After awhile I began to notice that all these assumptions were brought upon me by adults, the very people I wished would support me. It is a sad reality that the people who taught us that we deserve to live fair and just lives, that we could do and be anything, will in the next breath, call us spoiled and needy for fighting for just that.

Youth organizing is more than kids meeting a few times and talking about things they don’t like.

It’s calculated and structured. It’s planning and planning until you think you have everything down to a T, just to realize that there's more to do. It’s collaborating with people all across your city, and keeping the connection to ensure people stay motivated. It’s researching and reading all kinds of political jargon just to be able to relay it in an effective way to your peers. It’s meeting after meeting, often sleepless nights, days lived off coffee and pizza. It’s hate mail and death threats from close-minded adults, and getting taunted by the very people you’re fighting for. It’s the glory of waking up and realizing that all your blood, sweat, and tears meant something because a few of your demands were met, and then realizing the next steps to make sure the other ones are met, too.

Organizing isn’t some fun pastime. It’s a lifestyle. A commitment. It’s my life. And until April 12, I wondered if it was really the life I wanted to live.

That day, at Mosaic Youth Theatre of Detroit I met a few student activists from the Northern High School Walkout of 1966. I am part of a production, "Northern Lights 1966," that honors their activism, and meeting them was a dream come true.

Three students planned and executed a campaign against the poor education they were receiving. These students forced the adults and decision makers to give in to their demands and give them the education they deserve. They dealt with many of the issues we see in schools today like lack of teachers, few resources, and people in positions of power who refused to acknowledge students' experiences. The students walked out of their school and stayed out for weeks, subsequently creating a freedom school. These students refused to return to school until their principal was fired, their abusive security guard was removed, and the board agreed to improve their school. Their walkout is an inspiration to me, and a perfect example of what it takes to create change in your community.

It shocked me to hear their stories, mainly because of how similar they were to what students experience today. Aggressive security, lack of books, unmotivated or non-existent teachers, adults unwilling to listen...all of these issues are the same ones we fight for today. And more than that...all of these are issues that the students in the '66 walkout changed.

Their walkout and freedom school embody the action I wish to see in Detroit’s youth -- a sustainable campaign that forces adults to do something about the challenges black and brown children experience in schools.

These were students just like me, in a school just like mine, who created this action that forced their board to notice and rectify their issues. To meet them just showed me how possible and necessary student activism was, and that the work I’m doing is not in vain.

After the meeting I spoke to one of the alumni, Nick Collins and he told me that he was proud of me for being an activist. He said, “activism isn’t ever really about the person itself, it’s about the people it will affect after.” This quote stuck with me. The Northern students represent the importance of youth activism and how effective it can be if students stick it through and demand change. I realized that I can do the same thing.

Northern Lights 1966 ends with this sentiment:

“To push the limits of your knowledge is, in every generation, a revolutionary act. To push the limits of your abilities is in each era, a revolutionary act. To stand up and be counted is, even in our present moment, a revolutionary act.”

Detroit's youth can lead a revolution.

Imani Harris, 18, is a member of the Mosaic Youth Theatre of Detroit. Its latest production is "Northern Lights 1966," which runs at the Detroit Film Theatre until May 20. For more information go to mosaicdetroit.org.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2rF7yvR