Today, we tend to associate the flying wing design of aircraft with stealthy planes like the B-2 and the upcoming B-21 bomber. But the world’s first jet-powered flying wing emerged 70 years ago, and it was not designed to be stealthy but instead to conquer the problem of drag.

The Northrop YB-49 “Flying Wing” bomber prototype flew flight tests with the Air Force for several years before a fatal crash and basic problems with the aircraft led to its cancellation in 1949. A documentary from the late 1940s shows the optimism around the fresh design as the Northrop aviation company tried to explain the new YB-49 bomber to the masses.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

The video is interesting because it doesn’t once mention stealth or the YB-49’s reduced radar signature. That’s because the goal of the tailless design was to reduce drag and increase the bomber’s flying efficiency, boosting speed and range. According to the narrator, the flying wing design could transport a payload 25 percent farther or faster than conventional designs.

At the time, little was known about the principles of stealth—that is, shaping an aircraft to reduce its radar signature. Although Northrop had noticed the YB-49 was harder to see on radar, it didn’t know why. It would be another 30 years before an aircraft would be designed specifically with stealth in mind—Lockheed’s Have Blue technology demonstrator, which would eventually lead to the F-117A Stealth Fighter.



Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

YB-49 on first takeoff. Wikimedia Commons

One key point that the documentary makes is that Northrop engineers (which the documentary refers to as “Northrop men”) realized conventional aircraft usually concentrate their cargo inside the fuselage, resulting in the need to heavily reinforce the fuselage and wings. The flying wing, on the other hand, would distribute the load among several cargo holds, eliminating the need for reinforcement.

Ironically, it was that distribution of payload that doomed the YB-49 as a bomber. The YB-49 couldn't carry an individual bomb that weighed more than 4,000 lbs., but the main nuclear bomb at the time, the Mark III, weighed a whopping 10,300 lbs. This disqualified the YB-49 for the nuclear mission, which instead went to the conventionally designed Boeing B-47.



Today, the flying wing tradition continues as Northrop (now Northrop Grumman) is working on the Air Force's next generation heavy bomber, the B-21 Raider. The Raider is expected to enter service in the mid 2020s.