By StoryStudio

Summer in San Francisco is stunning. It’s the reason brides-to-be from coast to coast dream about saying “I do” in this gorgeous city by the bay. The Swedenborgian Church of San Francisco, with a history dating back to 1895, is the perfect place for a betrothed couple looking for an intimate, lovely locale to begin their life together.

The Swedenborgian Church of San Francisco looks as though it was pulled directly out of the pictures of a fairy-tale book. This unique venue was designed and built by some of the most prominent artists and architects from the Arts and Crafts movement: the painter William Keith, naturalist John Muir, architect A. Page Brown, draftsman Bernard Maybeck, and the first minister of the church, Reverend Joseph Worcester. It also holds the distinct honor of being one of California’s first buildings in the Arts and Crafts style.

It felt meaningful to be part of such a long and cherished tradition.

As one of the first churches in San Francisco to have allowed wedding ceremonies for non-members, this National Historic Landmark was once the second most popular wedding venue in the entire United States. It was also one of the first churches in the city to allow gay and interracial marriages, and the congregation’s open, accepting nature has made the church a favorite among those getting married in San Francisco. Couples who wed there become one more romantic moment in the church’s memory.

“After our wedding, we signed the church’s marriage book, in which are inscribed the names of everyone who has ever been married at the Swedenborgian. It felt meaningful to be part of such a long and cherished tradition, and we were proud to become part of the church’s history,” said Corey and Doyle, who were married at the church.

The Venue

The beauty of the Swedenborgian is unmatched. A sumptuous garden sits just outside the chapel, with a sunken pool and trees from all over the world, including an Irish yew, a Japanese maple, a Lebanese cedar, a Palestinian olive, and two redwoods. The garden is guarded by a cross from the Mission San Miguel, ensuring that all who marry there are blessed and protected.

When we stepped inside, we knew we had found our venue. Its rich history, the beautiful garden, and all the breathtaking design elements are one of a kind.

The chapel itself is romantic and elegant, dripping in candles to give the ceremonies performed there an intimate feel. It stands as a sanctuary of serenity against the bustling city of San Francisco just outside its walls. The spirit of the church arises from the Swedenborgian Church’s appreciation of beauty and nature, which can be felt by the couple as well as their family and friends throughout the ceremony.

“When we stepped inside, we knew we had found our venue. Its rich history, the beautiful garden, and all the breathtaking design elements are one of a kind. It is earthy, mystical, cozy, and spirited with the candles, fireplace, William Keith oil paintings, and rustic interior. After the wedding, several people told us it was the best ceremony they’d ever been to,” said Robin and Brittney.

﻿

The Ceremony

Couples can bring their own officiants and musicians, although they can also utilize the team at the Swedenborgian Church. Reverend Junchol Lee has a diverse background in religion, history, and Eastern philosophy, and he is happy to meet with couples who want to learn, discuss, and understand what it takes to build a happy marriage. A second reverend, Dr. Rachel Rivers, is also an option for couples. Rev. Rachel loves to help couples create meaningful, joyful weddings.

Any DJ, band, or crooner can come to the church for your happy day, but if you’d like to enlist the help of the church’s musical director, Grammy-winner Jonathan Dimmock, he is ready and waiting.

“The church was the ideal setting for our small wedding and reception. We had recently moved to the Bay Area, and we were looking for a unique venue in our new city to host 80 guests. The planner assigned to us for the day was amazing. The overall ambience was rich and beautiful for our photos, and our guests loved having the cocktail hour outside with the reception in the hall. It was a perfect day!” said newlyweds Anthony and Katie.

The Planning Process

Wedding planning can be a stressful time for many, but not at the Swedenborgian Church of San Francisco. The team at the Swedenborgian makes the planning process easy and convenient. They provide a wedding hostess that can help couples book rehearsals, coordinate wedding ceremonies, and make the special day run as smoothly as possible.

With one upfront fee, you can count on the Swedenborgian Church to never throw in hidden costs or add stress to your wedding. Ease and convenience are foremost on the church’s mind when helping you plan your wedding. That means less stress on what will hopefully be the best day of your life.

To find out more about being married in this historic San Francisco landmark, visit sfwedding.org.