Buy Photo New books coming with new recipes for the grilling season, (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Let the grilling begin.

May is deemed National Barbecue Month, and Memorial Day is the unofficial start of barbecue and grilling season. It's the second-most-popular time of the year for Americans to fire up the grill. (The Fourth of July holiday is No. 1.) The season runs through Labor Day, though there are plenty of us who grill year-round.

Seven out of 10 Americans own a grill or smoker, according to the Hearth, Patio & Barbecue Association, and the appetite for cooking outdoors is on the rise.

The annual GrillWatch survey from the makers of Weber grills has found that grill owners believe having an outdoor entertaining area plays an important role when it comes to purchasing a new home.

Each new season, brings new cookbooks, must-have tools, methods and techniques to master. Grilling has also become more high-tech. Gadgets for gas grills allow you to control timing and temperature via smartphone or Bluetooth technology.

If you like the Roomba for cleaning your floors, there's one to clean the grill. The Grillbot, $89.95 at homedepot.com, works like the Roomba. It uses wire brushes powered by three motors to do the dirty job.

And recipes? There are plenty of those, too, including new twists on old favorites and new ways to infuse flavor. Barbecue guru Steven Raichlen, who makes annual trend predictions, expects a rise in what he calls “fusion ’que.” “It’s what happens when traditional American barbecue meets authentic ethnic cuisine, and it’s happening more and more across the country.”

Other Raichlen predictions from www.barbecuebible.com include:

Salt slab desserts

Thin steaks and chops because they marinate and cook faster.

The rise of pork steaks. Raichlen hails their "generous marbling and intrinsically tender meat" and notes that they cost less.

The return of veal. Raichlen says there's a "new generation of ranchers that are raising calves in herds on pasture grass outdoors" instead of doing factory farming.

Today's grilling guide includes more tips, recipes, information on new techniques and more.

More on Freep.com:

Indirect or direct heat during grilling? How to choose

5 new cookbooks and recipes to launch the grilling season

'Caveman grilling': Cooking meat on hot embers

Grilling: How do you know when it's done?

Contact Susan Selasky at 313-222-6872 or sselasky@freepress.com. Follow @SusanMariecooks on Twitter.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LyxSAX