Chevy Equinox center topdown. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Daring designs and innovative features will rule the day as WardsAuto honors 2018’s 10 best vehicle interiors at Cobo Center this week.

The winners demonstrate several interesting trends. This is the eighth time Wards has presented the awards. Criteria include value, creativity, comfort, fit and finish, ergonomics, design harmony, materials and technology.

Trends this year include automakers stretching the envelope with designs that would’ve been reserved for nonproduction concept cars a few years ago, Wards managing editor Tom Murphy said. Wards’s editors evaluated 40 interiors that were new or significantly changed from last year.

Reflecting buying trends, six of the winners are in trucks and utility vehicles. The winning vehicles range in price from a $29,775 subcompact SUV to a $201,540 twin-turbo V8 plug-in hybrid luxury car.

Read more:

The top 10, in alphabetical order:

Chevrolet Equinox

$36,375 as tested

The Equinox is one of Chevy’s top sellers, but designers took some chances with the new model’s interior. “You can tell they had fun with swooping lines on the door trim and oblong air condition vents,” Murphy said. “And GM’s infotainment system is great: fast and easy to use.” The Equinox competes with vehicles like the Ford Escape, Toyota RAV4 and Honda CR-V in what’s become America’s top-selling segment.

Chevy Equinox front seats. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Review: 2018 Chevrolet Equinox proves less is more

Hyundai Kona

$29,775 as tested

At 164 inches long, the Kona is nearly 8 inches shorter than a Ford Focus hatchback. It plays in a price-sensitive corner of the market where competitors like the Honda HR-V and Toyota C-HR have very basic interiors, but Hyundai dressed the Kona up with a splash of color.

“Hyundai tastefully applied lime green around the vents and other places in a way that really spices up a bare-bones interior,” Murphy said.

Hyundai Kona passenger seat. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Infiniti QX50

$58,195 as tested

Infiniti’s new compact luxury SUV got early attention for an innovative engine, but Murphy says the interior is riveting.

“It’s amazing,” he said. “I opened the door and saw cream and brown and blue Ultrasuede open-pore maple wood trim that is so subtle it actually looks metallic.”

It’s a bold design automakers would once have used in a concept and toned down beyond all recognition for the production model. “It totally works,” Murphy said.

The Infiniti QX50. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Kia Stinger

$48,350 as tested

Kia gambled big when it developed the Stinger, a sporty luxury car that offers hatchback room and carrying capacity in a body that looks like a racy sedan. The interior is equally effective, with plenty of room, appealing materials, and easy to use controls.

“This is what it’ll take to get consumers back into big cars,” Murphy said.

Kia Stinger door details. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

First drive: 2018 Kia Stinger

Lexus LS 500

$89,780 as tested

Lexus’s big new flagship sedan is loaded with ornate touches like hand-folded pleats and cut-glass in the door trim. It also makes bold choices with rich colors a far cry from the somber hues German luxury brands prefer.

“The designers got a long leash, and they did great work,” Murphy said. “The variety of color schemes is spectacular.”

Lexus combined those bold touches with the exquisite fit and finish that have always been its calling card.

Lexus LS parchment brown passenger view. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Lexus LS 500 is a $100K beauty with beastly controls

Lincoln Navigator

$96,570 as tested

The new Navigator’s sumptuous Black Label package was a slam dunk.

“It made the list with hardly any discussion,” Murphy said. “The Black Label is breathtaking and monochromatic, with the color perfectly matched on every material.

“The attention to detail is outstanding, with beautiful mahogany wood that compliments the color scheme. Even the second-row grab-handles in the roof have nice little bits of chrome on the end.”

Lincoln Navigator armrests. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

First drive: 2018 Lincoln Navigator details exude luxury

Porsche Panamera SE plug-in hybrid

$201,540

A lot of the Panamera’s extravagant price owes to its 680-hp drivetrain, but the interior got kudos for an all-new infotainment system, “the best massaging seats on the planet,” and a clean new design that eliminates the buttons that used to rampage across Porsche interiors like ants at a picnic.

“They did away with those hideous buttons,” Murphy said, replacing them with easy-to-use capacitive controls and a big touch screen.

The interior successfully integrates the latest features with Porsche’s legendary focus on driving.

Porsche Panamera cockpit from center. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Ram 1500

$64,945 as tested

Long gone are the days when pickups were simple work trucks with vinyl seats and minimal creature comforts. The new Ram Wards evaluated had navy leather with cream contrast stitching, and an innovative storage compartment under the floor. In one of several whimsical touches, the compartment — designed so fishers could stash their catch for the drive home — has a built-in ruler to measure the trophies.

The wood trim “looks almost like denim,” Murphy said, with white pinstripes on a dark background.

Ram 1500 Limited wood wheel detail. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

First drive: 2019 Ram 1500 gets jump on Ford and Chevy

Range Rover Velar

$91,830 as tested

“This is magical stuff. This is what the future looks like,” Murphy said of the Velar’s control panel, which includes two large touch screeavant-gardeir of multipurpose dials. The result is a set of controls that dispense with nearly all buttons and provides quick, easy access to everything from climate to audio to navigation.

Fine leather covers nearly every surface in the luxurious SUV.

Range Rover Velar. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Review: 2019 Range Rover Velar redefines SUV luxury

Toyota Camry

$39,253

As sedan sales fall, Toyota encouraged its designers to swing for the fences with the new Camry. The result: once renowned for its conservativeness, America’s best-selling sedan offers a bright red interior and an avant garde line that snakes from the left of the center stack, down the console past the shifter and to the passenger seat.

“It’s not what you’d expect to see from Toyota,” Murphy said. “They’re stretching the boundaries.”

Toyota Camry passenger seat view. (Photo: Wardsauto/Tom Murphy)

Contact Mark Phelan: mmphelan@freepress.com or 313-222-6731. Follow him on Twitter @mark_phelan.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LxGuIl