Buy Photo Chicken bites with dipping sauce. (Photo: Susan Selasky, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

Our Oven-Fried Chicken Bites are kid-approved and a healthful alternative to the drive-through version.

When shopping for mayonnaise to test the honey mustard sauce, I was taken aback at the array of options: fat-free, low-fat, light, reduced-fat, made with olive oil, made with canola oil, made with avocado oil. Of course, there was regular full-fat mayo, too.

For mayonnaise aficionados, nothing beats the creamy full-fat version. Unfortunately, regular mayonnaise comes with a big calorie price tag. One tablespoon slathered on a sandwich adds about 100 calories and one cup stirred into a pasta or potato salad adds 1,600 calories.

If you’re watching your waistline, you may want to try a lighter version. From a taste and texture standpoint, I’d recommend leaving fat-free mayonnaise on the grocery store self. It’s tough to make something taste like real mayonnaise when the main ingredients are water, vinegar and modified food starch. Low-fat mayo isn’t much better. At 15 calories per tablespoon its main ingredients are water, modified food starch and soybean oil.

Light and reduced-fat varieties typically provide 35 to 60 calories per tablespoon. Water is usually the first ingredient, followed by oil and eggs. Although taste and texture aren’t what you get with full-fat mayo, these versions are much better than the fat-free and low-fat options. Mayonnaise made with olive, canola or avocado oil tends to be lower in calories, not because those oils are lower in calories, but because water is the main ingredient.

Modified food starch is used to thicken, emulsify or stabilize a food product and is commonly found in reduced-fat mayonnaise. It’s typically made from corn, potato, tapioca or wheat. If it’s made from wheat, the word “wheat” should be clearly marked on the label. If the label doesn’t specify the type of starch, people with wheat allergies or those who need to avoid gluten should contact the manufacturer.

Oven-fried Chicken Bites with Honey Mustard Sauce

Serves: 4 / Prep time: 25 minutes / Total time: 45 minutes

1 cup (about 24 crackers) crushed reduced-fat round buttery crackers (such as Ritz)

5 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese

¾ teaspoon garlic powder

1 large egg, slightly beaten

1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breast

Vegetable oil cooking spray

3 tablespoons reduced-fat mayonnaise

3 tablespoon nonfat plain Greek yogurt

1 tablespoon Dijon mustard

1 tablespoon honey

Preheat oven to 375 degrees. In a shallow dish or bowl, combine cracker crumbs, Parmesan cheese and garlic powder. Place egg in a separate shallow dish. Cut chicken into 24 pieces. Dredge chicken in egg and then in crumb mixture.

Spray a large, rimmed baking sheet with cooking spray. Place lightly coated chicken

pieces on sheet, and spray each piece with cooking spray. Bake 10 to 15 minutes,

or until internal temperature reaches 165 degrees. To prepare dipping sauce, whisk together mayonnaise, yogurt, mustard, and honey. Serve sauce with chicken bites.

Created by Darlene Zimmerman, MS, RD, for Heart Smart and tested by Susan Selasky for the Free Press Test Kitchen.

327 calories (30% from fat), 11 grams fat (2 grams sat. fat, 0 grams trans fat), 21 grams carbohydrates, 32 grams protein, 460 mg sodium, 125 mg cholesterol, 119 mg calcium, 0 grams fiber. Food exchanges: 1 ½ starch, 3 lean meat, 1 fat.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2GzdNXw