Glen Lake over the ripples of Sleeping Bear Dunes (Photo: DArthurBrown, Getty Images/iStockphoto)

Book that summer vacation yet?

Comparing prices for generic hotel rooms or wondering if your wallet can handle a lakeside cottage rental can be a pain.

Instead, more travelers are turning to Airbnb, the online marketplace for a wide variety of vacation homes and short-term rentals. The site allows property owners, or "hosts," to advertise extra space –- from rooms to an entire home to novel accommodations such as treehouses and houseboats.

Benjamin Breit, Airbnb spokesman, told the Free Press that for the majority of the year, the most popular Airbnb destination in Michigan is Detroit, with Ann Arbor at No. 2.

However, during the summer months, he said Traverse City becomes the top spot, and looking at the state's Upper Peninsula, Breit said Marquette, in particular, draws tremendous interest.

Two high-volume periods for rentals are coming up, Memorial Day and Labor Day, Breit said, and as folks gear up to nab the perfect places to stay, he offered up some advice:

1. Search and book with confidence

"First and foremost is searching and booking with confidence... just getting exactly what you're looking for by taking advantage of the search filters," Breit said.

Breit said there's a wide variety of listings that range from an extra room in someone's home to a luxurious houses on the water, but it's important to read the host profile and listing descriptions to make sure you really have a good fit. Don't just rely on the photos.

He said some places have house rules that may be very specific, like no noise after a certain time, and that could be a factor.

It's also all about knowing what you want in terms of amenities, Breit said.

It's hard to determine an average listing price on Airbnb, because there are so many options. But Breit said that whatever your price point is, you're going to find it — just use Airbnb's search filters to set a desired range.

"If your budget is below $50 per night, there are gonna be options for you," he said.

2. Read the ratings and reviews

Ultimately, Breit said the platform is built on a foundation of trust, so it's important to read the ratings and reviews. There, you'll find information about cleanliness, description accuracy and feedback from people who have been there before, he said.

There's also an Airbnb messaging feature that Breit said allows people to get their questions answered by a host before they book, as well as after the booking to communicate an arrival time or clarify anything.

3. Don't give up right away if you haven't found the right fit

There may be more competition for places to stay during high-volume periods, but Breit said it's important to keep in mind that Airbnb doesn't have static inventory — some people offer up their homes year-round, others every weekend and some only during specific times of the year.

There are also more and more people joining the platform as hosts every day, he added.

So if you haven't found exactly what you're looking today, Breit said it very well could show up on the site the next day or the next week.

Top 3 in the Traverse City area — the #1 summer destination on Airbnb

A "cheerful & relaxed home" with 3 bedrooms, 3 beds, 1 bath. "Fire up the barbecue and dine al fresco in the private backyard of this Traverse City home. When dinner's over, enjoy a late night campfire before heading to bed for a peaceful night's sleep. In the morning, grab treats from the neighborhood bakery and plan your day exploring hiking trails, beaches, craft breweries and world-class wineries," the description said.

Dubbed, "the Loft," this space on the corner of Union and State has 2 beds and 1 bath. "...only a block from the beach and everything that downtown Traverse City has to offer. Restaurants, festivals, coffee shops, movie theaters, you name it," the description said.

A condo with 1 bedroom and 1 bath, advertised as "bright and open" with 13-foot high ceilings and 8-foot high windows in the "the Village" historical complex about a mile from downtown Traverse City.

Top 3 in the Marquette area — a hot pick in the Upper Peninsula

Titled, "The Love shack! on the Love Lot! On Lake Superior!" this space has one bedroom and a half-bath. According to the description, it sits on a cliff, and the lot includes and RV camping site, fire pit with cooking grill and dutch oven, wood burning sauna, gas grill with side burner, water for cooking and cleaning, gas head and lights, plus outdoor privy with a commode for night use.

This 1 bedroom, 1 bath studio apartment is across Greywall's golf course and about 1.25 miles from downtown, according to the listing. From kayaking to biking, there's "recreation out your door."

This "funky beach house" boasts 2 bedrooms and 1 bath on the shores of Lake Superior. According to its description, it's "...decorated for a whimsical vacationer. Ample outdoor space, in a quiet private setting."

Airbnb's statewide top 3

Detroit — A 1 bedroom, 1 bath loft space that is described as "beautiful, open, airy" in a renovated 1926 industrial building on Woodward Avenue near the Amsterdam stop of the QLINE.

Suttons Bay — This log cabin has 3 bedrooms and 3 baths, with a private beach. "Grill, swim, read, cook, walk, hike, bike, wine taste and more..." the description said.

Lake Leelanau — Called the "Wayfarer Treehouse," this space has 3 bedrooms and 2.5 baths and is described as a "Scandinavian modern home within a wooded setting" (not an actual treehouse). Here, guests can walk to the lake, hike cherry orchards, plus explore local wineries and distilleries.

Check out some of the site's most popular Michigan options.

Contact reporter Aleanna Siacon at ASiacon@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @AleannaSiacon.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LknAnX