This Tuesday, celebrate the short week with a gift to yourself. (Photo: Crock-Pot / Reviewed)

— Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need. If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue. However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Today’s newsroom and any business incentives.

Memorial Day weekend is officially behind us, but that doesn't mean you can't still find savings on awesome products this summer. Whether you're in the market for a smart plug or you want a way to cook food without your oven in the summer heat, we found some amazing deals on Amazon for things we've tried and loved. Who said the celebrations and vacation state-of-mind had to end just because the long weekend is over? No one, that's who. Now go spoil yourself or someone you love and save a few bucks in the process.

1. Under $20: Our favorite affordable smart plug

Make any electronic a little smarter. (Photo: Reviewed / Ben Keough)

Do you ever wish you could turn your lights off without getting out of bed, or start your coffee so it's ready when you wake up? Rather than investing in expensive smart lamps and programmable coffee pots, you should try a smart plug* on the stuff you already have. Anker's eufy brand makes the best affordable smart plug we've ever tried, and right now you can save 18% on the usual $22.99 price thanks to a modest discount and a 15% off coupon.

Get the Anker eufy Smart Plug Mini for $17.85 (Save $5.14)

*If smart technology isn't your thing, there are wireless plugs you can control with a simple remote too. Etekcity, whose smart plugs impressed us too, makes a set of three wireless plugs that you can get for $16.98.

2. Under $70: The pressure cooker that's better than the Instant Pot

Cook without turning your kitchen into a sauna this summer. (Photo: Crock-Pot)

Instant Pot may be a household name when it comes to cooking these days. But you don't need to shell out $100+ to get a great multi-cooker. Crock-Pot actually makes best electric pressure cooker we've ever tried, which narrowly beat out the Instant Pot DUO Plus 9-in-1 thanks to its lower price and easier-to-use touchscreen. Right now, it's $10 less than usual, too. The best part? You can cook delicious meals all summer without turning on your oven or stove.

Get the Crock-Pot 6-qt. 8-in-1 Express Crock Electric Multi-Cooker for $69.92 (Save $10)

3. Under $350: An awesome portable projector

Now you can watch TV wherever you are. (Photo: Anker)

If you've been watching TV in bed on your laptop, or worse, your phone, it might be time to make a change. This portable projector is just the ticket. It's a little bit bigger than a soda can, has a 4-hour play time, and can display Netflix, YouTube and other streaming services on any surface.

It's not 4K, or even 1080p, but it also doesn't cost nearly as much as a regular TV, especially when it's $90 less than usual (for the red model only). And when you can watch TV on your ceiling or the wall or even a sheet strung up in your backyard, you won't notice that the picture's not razor sharp. Plus, you can get a free case (usually $39.99) with the code "CCNEBULA." Just add it to your cart before you checkout.

Get the Anker Nebula Capsule Portable Projector for $309.99 (Save $90)

4. Under $25: Our favorite affordable wireless charger

Make sure your phone is always charged and ready to go. (Photo: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin)

If you have a phone that can charge wirelessly, you really need to take advantage of this fun feature. Samsung makes the best fast-charging pad we've tried, and it's down to a new low price right now. I have one of these chargers on my desk at work, and when I'm constantly darting to meetings or running around to test things in our labs, it's so easy to keep my phone juiced up. I just drop the phone onto the pad while I'm at my computer and when it's time to go, I have one less thing to unplug.

Get the Samsung Qi Fast-Charge Wireless Charging Pad for $24.99 (Save $14)

5. Under $200: The newest version of our favorite affordable robot vacuum

The RoboVac 11 is slimmer and more powerful than ever. (Photo: eufy)

Eufy has a new robot vacuum, and this is the sleekest one yet. It's under 3 inches tall, but has even more powerful suction than earlier models. We've tested a lot of Eufy robot vacuums, and they always perform well in our robovac obstacle course (yes it's a real thing), so while we're still in process of testing the 11S, we're confident it's a solid piece of machinery. Right now, you can save 15% on this vacuum, which is priced at $220 usually.

Get the eufy RoboVac 11S with BoostIQ for $186.99 (Save $33)

Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2L32l9i