By StoryStudio

Have you been consumed with classical music lately? You aren’t the only one. Classical is cool again. For many millennials, that means a night out at the San Francisco Symphony, where music director Michael Tilson Thomas has been providing audiences with amazing, high-energy performances of both traditional and modern orchestral music. But before you dive headfirst into the Davies Music Hall, there are a few things you need to know. Here’s our guide to harmonizing with the regulars at the San Francisco Symphony.

What Not to Wear

Before you slip into that floor-length formal gown, consider this: San Francisco is known for its simple style, and the Symphony is no exception. Most people attending the San Francisco Symphony wear their formal frocks only to the Opening Gala. At all other performances, concertgoers are clad in cocktail attire. Wear what you’d wear to a nice dinner, and you’ll blend in with the regulars.

Class up the Selfie

The balconies and windows from the second tier offer views of the San Francisco skyline that are second to none. A memorable place to take a pic that will have your followers swooning. So extend your arm, snap that selfie and don’t forget to tag the SF Symphony for some extra likes on insta. Do show some restraint during performances though and take in the view with your eyes, not while looking through the lens of your phone.

The More You Know, The More You Blend

Don’t front. It’s okay not to know the difference between a measure and a movement, but don’t pretend that you do. You can bet your bassoon that your lack of knowledge will call attention to your amateur status. Thankfully, the San Francisco Symphony can turn any amateur into an authority. All you have to do is get there early. Pre-concert talks are held one hour before most Orchestra concerts and open rehearsals, and what you learn will make you sound like an expert in any intermission interactions.

There’s No Phone in Philharmonic

Leaving on your cell phone or any other device that makes sounds and lights up won’t just alert others to the fact that you’re a Symphony newbie. It will also irritate them, embarrass you, and could even disrupt the flow of the concert. Place your phone on airplane mode before you enter the concert hall so you won’t have to worry about causing a disturbance.

Hold the Applause

Nothing says novice at the Symphony like bursting into a loud “Bravo!” any time the musicians take a breather. Contrary to what you may think, applause isn’t always appreciated. Why? At the Symphony, there is usually applause only when a full piece of music closes. That means that if you’re listening to Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9, which has four movements, it’s appropriate to clap after the last movement only. Usually, your program book can help you figure out how many movements a piece has, but if you’re still baffled about when to clap, just wait for the rest of the audience. When they applaud, you can too.

For tickets and more info, go to www.sfsymphony.org. Last minute tickets start as low as $15!