As far as Jay Readey knows, no human has ever hiked the entire path he and his fellow trailblazers embarked upon Tuesday.

For the next two weeks, the intrepid travelers, as Readey calls his little band of backpackers, will walk a ring around Chicago and the suburbs, staying as close as possible to woods, lakes, streams, prairie grass, flowers, rock, wildlife — the vast profusion of nature.

They’ll trek through the days, camp at night, fill up on gorp and granola bars, find bathrooms wherever they can and prove that even in a city as big and hard as Chicago, it’s possible to enjoy the spiritual transcendence of a long hike in the wilds.

“You’ve covered 2.9 miles,” a voice from Readey’s belt — a phone app charting the travelers’ progress — announced shortly after I caught up with them Tuesday.

Only 167 more miles to go.

It was midmorning and I’d met the trailblazers at 31st Street Beach where sanitation workers were collecting Memorial Day litter. We walked past the beach house, the boats bobbing in the harbor, some empty bottles and chip bags, until one of the trailblazers spied a mulch path that led into a prairie preserve.

Soon the intrepid travelers were roaming across fields of green grass overlooking the blue lake, far enough from Lake Shore Drive that the chirping birds were louder than the cars.

“This,” Readey said, “is exactly what the Outerbelt is supposed to be.”

“Outerbelt” is his term for the ring of green space around the metro area, which until now hasn’t been conceptualized as a continuous path.

Readey, who describes himself as a community development lawyer and social entrepreneur, fell into the concept during long walks with his dog in the Cook County Forest Preserves. Studying maps of the trails, he wondered: Could I get to Lake Michigan from here?

In the same period, shortly after his mother died, he chanced into a copy of “Wild,” Cheryl Strayed’s best-selling book about hiking the Pacific Crest Trail after her mother’s death. The book reinforced his yearning to be outdoors.

He began gathering information from maps of all kinds and deduced that between bike paths and nature paths, there was a walkable “green” ring around the city. He charted it, then recruited other nature lovers to join the board of a nonprofit he named The Outerbelt Alliance.

The walk would take hikers not only through the city’s natural diversity, but through its cultural diversity. With some luck, it would attract people in all the neighborhoods it traversed.

But until Tuesday, he’d never set out to walk it all.

He loaded up his 30-year-old JanSport backpack, which he acquired on a freshman initiation hike at Yale University, and met his fellow travelers at Buckingham Fountain a little before 9 a.m.

One of the hikers was Stanley Jackson. The longest hike he’d ever taken was 10 miles, in Topanga Canyon, Calif. That’s four miles more than he has ever hiked in Chicago.

“No Boy Scout here,” he said.

When he told his California friends he was hiking the Outerbelt, they said, “That’s hot.” When he told his Chicago friends, they said, “That’s crazy.”

Molly Fitzgibbon was in the intrepid group, too, loaded down with a 50-pound backpack that contained all the essentials, from duct tape to a two-person tent.

“I didn’t grow up in a family that hiked or camped,” she said, “but I think that you can come to these activities as an adult.”

Emily Leu, meanwhile, once hiked 700 miles of the Appalachian Trail, 200 of those on a broken foot.

“Backpacking is my thing,” she said.

Completing a long trek on something like the Appalachian Trail is known as a thru-hike, and it’s a term the intrepid travelers apply to their Chicago journey.

“It’s cool to change the definition of what a thru-hike looks like,” Leu said. “There are more paved sections, more people. But you’re still hiking. You’re getting yourself from the beginning to the end on your own power with everything you need on your back.”

Not quite everything.

For better or worse, an urban thru-hike comes with some of the temptations and demands of city living.

“I’m trying to unplug,” Jackson said, meaning he was trying not to reach for the phone in his pocket, though he hadn’t been able to resist a glance.

“The stock market’s down 380 points,” he said, then added, “for reasons I have decided not to investigate.”

Readey and Leu had scheduled a couple of work-related phone appointments during hike time, and in the next two weeks the travelers will rely on Uber and Lyft to get them to and from the campgrounds and backyards where they’ll sleep.

The ring route will take them far south, then west. then to the northern suburbs and, finally, in two weeks, back to Buckingham Fountain. For information about where they’ll be, what they’ve seen and how you might join them, check out the Web site: www.outerbelt.org.

On Tuesday, I peeled off at 47th Street and waved goodbye as the intrepid travelers headed south. Their destination: a Hyde Park cafe, in search of coffee and electrical outlets.

Nature, for all its wonders, can’t supply everything.

mschmich@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @MarySchmich

MORE FROM MARY SCHMICH

Go ahead, waste your summer on your cellphone. Or explore it like a kid. »

The Obama center can't do everything — but it can do a lot »

Let's not wreck our riverwalk by letting it become a waterfront frat party »