Well, That Escalated Quickly: Memoirs and Mistakes of an Accidental Activist

Franchesca Ramsey (memoir, Grand Central Publishing)

Video blogger and star of MTV’s “Decoded,” Franchesca Ramsey went viral with her “S–t White Girls Say . . . to Black Girls” clip. Here, she sounds off on race, identity, culture and other anecdotes from the life of an accidental activist.

The Restless Wave

John McCain (memoir, Simon & Schuster)

“I don’t know how much longer I’ll be here,” writes John McCain in this moving memoir. “I have some things I’d like to take care of first, some work that needs finishing and some people I need to see. And I want to talk to my fellow Americans a little more if I may.” We’re glad he did, as he offers up a vision for what America can be.

Little Disasters

Randall Klein (fiction, Viking)

In a Brooklyn maternity ward, two couples meet each other just as their lives are forever changed. Slowly, an awkward bond develops and emerges into something far more dangerous.

The Glitch

Elisabeth Cohen (fiction, Doubleday)

In the opening pages of this novel, Silicon Valley CEO Shelley Stone has lost her young daughter on a French beach — but stays on a business call while searching frantically. This sets the tone for this razor-sharp debut, a hilarious send-up of tech culture and the notion of women “having it all.”

The Outsider

Stephen King (fiction, Scribner)

An 11-year-old boy is found dead in the park, and all signs point to Little League coach Terry Maitland, father of two and one of the most popular citizens in town. As the investigation begins, town detectives have to ask themselves if Maitland is who he seems or if he’s been hiding dark secrets.

The Mandela Plot

Kenneth Bonert (fiction, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)

It’s the late 1980s in South Africa, where an awkward boy named Martin struggles to find a place at an elite private school in Johannesburg. A beautiful American activist comes to live with Martin at his family home, and she makes him see his own chaotic, changing country through a new lens.