In this week’s issue of Auto Express, we analyse details of the fastest ever Golf - the Golf R - ahead of the 400bhp hot hatchback’s arrival in showrooms in 2020.

We also take a look at the all-new Kia Sportage, as the fresh-faced SUV launches complete with a high-tech 48v hybrid system.

And there are exclusive images of the new Mazda 3, spy shots of the forthcoming SEAT Tarraco, and news of the stunning one-off Ferrari SP38 too.

In the drives section, we take the wild Jaguar XE SV Project 8 out for a spin, harnessing all 592bhp in what is the fastest production Jag ever.

We’ve also driven the new 630bhp Aston Martin DB11 AMR with its stunning V12 engine, plus BMW X3 M40i, DS 7 Crossback and Lotus Exige Sport 410 to boot.

Meanwhile, we’ve tested the Kia Stinger against its VW Arteon and BMW 4 Series rivals, and deliver long-term updates on the Citroen C3 Aircross and Alfa Romeo Giulia.

And in addition to all of that, out regular features and product reviews are included as well!

This week's special issue of Auto Express is on sale now for just £3.20 - or you can click here to get 6 issues for just £1.

The new Auto Express digital edition

Whether it’s inside info on the hottest new models, the definitive verdict on the best cars on sale, or the lowdown on the Government’s latest transport policy, we provide everything you need for your weekly motoring fix.

Britain’s best motoring magazine just got even better.

Download the Auto Express app from the iTunes store

Download the Auto Express app from the Google Play store

Download Auto Express for Kindle from Amazon

What’s new

The new Auto Express app gives you the latest issue of the Auto Express print magazine in digital form, perfectly optimised for your iPhone or iPad. You can buy individual issues or subscribe for even bigger discounts on the magazine cover price…

Prices from £2.29 per issue

• 3-month subscription £15.99

• 6-month subscription £30.99

• 12-month subscription £59.99

Sign up to our e-mail newsletter for all the latest car news FREE in your inbox...