Scientists have discovered three vast canyons hidden below hundreds of feet of ice in the Antarctic. What's more, the canyons could play a crucial role in the continent's shifting future.

The findings are the first fruits of a project known as PolarGAP, which started in 2015 and was funded by the European Space Agency with the goal of better understanding the South Pole's gravity field and geography. The two-year survey used small Twin Otter planes, sensors detecting gravity and magnetism, as well as radar and laser altimeter tools. Now the results are starting to come in, published in Geophysical Research Letters.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

The biggest valley, known as the Foundation Trough, is more than 217 miles long (350 km) and 21 miles (35 km) wide. For some perspective, that length is the same distance between New York City and Boston. The width is one and a half times the length of Manhattan.

The other valleys are also quite sizable. The second largest, the Patuxent Trough, is over 186 miles (300 km) long and over 9 miles (15 km) wide. The baby of the trio, the Offset Rift Basin, is 93 miles (150 km) long and 18 miles (30 km) wide.

But you wouldn't know it from looking at the surface. To get to the Foundation Trough, for example, you'd need to drill through over a mile (2 km) of solid ice.

The three cross what's known as the "ice divide," which runs from the exact location of the South Pole to the western part of the continent. Melting ice from the South Pole flows to both the east and the west. And with global warming increasing the melt, scientists are using computer modeling to try and figure out how these underground channels might change with the rest of the continent.

"People had called this area a bottleneck. The thought was that if the West Antarctic Ice Sheet were to collapse then ice could flood out from the east. But the mountains we've found effectively put a plug in that bottleneck," says team member Dr. Tom Jordan from the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) to the BBC.

However, everything would change if the ice melts. A recent study showed that warming waters have caused the icy continent to melt at rapid speeds between 2010 and 2016. The bottleneck could weaken.

"If climate conditions change in Antarctica, we might expect the ice in these troughs to flow a lot faster towards the sea. That makes them really important, and we simply didn't know they existed before now," says the study's lead author, Kate Winter from Northumbria University.



Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

There's still a lot of data for scientists to analyze from PolarGAP. But if these first results are any indication of what's coming, it could radically reshape what we know about the southernmost continent that's twice the size of Australia.

Source: Quartz