CLOSE Roseanne Barr vowed she was done with Twitter, but she’s returned, making the remarkable claim her racist tweet about Valerie Jarrett was caused by the sleep aid Ambien. Nathan Rousseau Smith has the story. Buzz60

Who was actually surprised by Barr's tweet? Readers and pundits debate.

Roseanne Barr (Photo: Bruce Plante, Tulsa World, PoliticalCartoons.com)

After Roseanne Barr posted a tweet comparing Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to an ape, ABC announced it would cancel the rebooted version of Roseanne.

Roseanne was a racist mess even before ABC rebooted her show

Roseanne Barr is famous for outrageous statements, insane conspiracy theories and self-sabotage. She combined all three Tuesday with a career-suicide-by-tweet that ended her sitcom and the jobs of everyone working for her.

Barr took a break from tweeting about deep-state pedophilia rings and CIA mind control for a racist attack on a former Obama adviser. In her now-deleted comment, Barr offered the following “joke”: “muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby = vj.”

VJ is short for Valerie Jarrett, an African American who has worked for Barack Obama since his earliest days in politics. (Barr must have missed ABC’s laugh track after that doozy.)

The comedian quickly apologized, but the tweet revealed her low character — as if anyone needed a reminder. High-level talent working on the Roseanne show condemned her, one quit the show and, within hours, ABC canceled the hit series.

More: Roseanne Barr just learned that no one gets to be Donald Trump. Not even her.

More: Readers sound off: Roseanne Barr's tweet has consequences

Her sitcom reboot made headlines in March for portraying Trump voters as regular folks frustrated with business as usual in Washington. But Barr’s comment was a Team MAGA caricature progressives couldn’t have dreamed up.

However, let’s make something clear: Barr wasn't fired because she supports Trump. If anything, she was hired because she supports Trump. She was fired because she's a disgusting racist.

Nevertheless, a few far-right voices are claiming that she’s the latest victim of PC bullying, even though they spent much of the past three decades condemning her as an America-hating Hollyweird elitist.

One of Barr’s early controversies was an atrocious and disrespectful rendition of the national anthem before a baseball game. She shrieked her way through the song then responded to the rain of boos by spitting on the ground and grabbing her crotch. President George H.W. Bush condemned her.

A year later, Barr accused her parents of incest, a claim she later said she regretted.

She dressed up as Hitler for a magazine cover, pulling a burnt collection of gingerbread men from the oven. Edgy.

She teamed up with anti-Bush activist Cindy Sheehan to serve as the presidential ticket for the far-left Peace and Freedom Party. As Occupy Wall Street protests raged on, she called for wealthy bankers to be beheaded.

Now, the opportunists who embraced the erratic celeb are looking like fools, and several ABC execs are updating their LinkedIn profiles. This makes it all the more puzzling that a few dead-enders are pushing the victimhood narrative.

The temptation to point to egregious comments by left-wing celebrities is understandable. Progressives can regularly say all kinds of awful things about the right, and the only response is golden statuettes.

Even so, when your politics leads you to defend comparing black people to apes, maybe step away from the news for a while. And, for America’s sake, stay out of the voting booth.

Roseanne wasn’t done in by social justice warriors or progressive snowflakes. Anyone following her career knew she was a disaster waiting to happen. If anything, her network bosses were too accommodating, assuming she’d tamp down the crazy as long as the checks rolled in.

But anyone who has witnessed Barr’s social media feed knew that wouldn’t happen. Her views were ugly before the show was greenlit, while it was in production, and after it began airing.

Jon Gabriel is the editor in chief of Ricochet.com and a contributor to The Arizona Republic, where this column first appeared. You can follow him on Twitter: @exjon.

More: Why it's a good thing that ABC canceled 'Roseanne'

What our readers are saying:

ABC network's swift cancellation of the Roseanne show after she sent out a racist/dehumanizing tweet was the morally correct thing to do. Roseanne Barr crossed a line and deserved to banished. Yet, I can't help but feel a deep sense of sadness about the spectacle of it all. Roseanne the reboot was seemingly making an honest attempt to explore some of the more socioeconomic challenges facing much of the nation — an episode on prejudice toward Muslims, another that was exploring the opioid epidemic, even the divide between families caused by the election of Donald Trump as president. Despite that, she continued her offensive conspiracy theory-laden tweet rants.

That someone in Rosseane's position and prominence as an entertainer would feel that it is somehow OK to broadcast what she wrote about Valerie Jarrett tells us something more profound and disturbing about the times we are living through today.

Cody Lyon; New York

Racism in America is alive and well. Exemplified by the abhorrent racist tweet by Roseanne Barr. Racism is far from being eradicated; it simmers under the surface of the American consciousness. What percentage of Americans share Roseanne's bigoted racial views? We can only speculate. But there is no doubt that, although overt racist outbursts are politically incorrect, the core bias has not gone away.

The evolutionary instinct that drives us to divide everyone into "us" or "them" promotes prejudice and intolerance. Yes, racial attitudes are more benign now than in the '60s, but the problem has not been resolved. And as long as we have a president whose own bias and intolerance is very evident, making prejudice and discrimination disappear may not yet come.

Ken Derow; Swarthmore, Pa.

More: Tomi Lahren: Free speech doesn't give you the right to attack someone

What others are saying:

Katherine Timpf, National Review: "Truly, (Roseanne Barr's) not even really 'conservative' so much as she is nuts. Is someone like that really someone (whom) conservatives should want as a representative of their side, anyway? I suppose I can understand how the dearth of conservatives in Hollywood might make conservatives feel compelled to just support whomever they can get, but anyone with a shred of respect or intelligence should think twice before defending a racist tweet from an unhinged conspiracy theorist."

Ernest Owens, CNN.com: "Instead of canceling the show and sending the cast away for good, ABC should reignite the show to highlight ways to address the destructive racism endorsed or tacitly accepted among Trump supporters like Barr. They could use this controversy to challenge the viewpoints of Roseanne's polarizing following. Roseanne's presence on the show kept it from being what it could be — a way for the entire country to connect with was once called Middle America's 'silent majority.' "

Roxane Gay, The New York Times: "The problem is that Donald Trump is a toxic president who amassed his power through the provocation of hate. He has behaved as if conservatism and racism are synonymous when, in fact, they are not. The problem is that having a major character on a prominent television show as a Trump supporter normalizes racism and misogyny and xenophobia."

To join the conversations about topics on USA TODAY, email letters@usatoday.com, comment on Facebook, or use #tellusatoday on Twitter.

CLOSE The show was a big moneymaker for ABC. So what's next? Kimmel and Jordan Klepper have ideas in Best of Late Night. Eileen Rivers, USA TODAY Opinion

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2xrMRtp