Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the host of the Laugh Track column, a man who drives slowly through Parma ... Mike McIntyre.

Thank you, Cleveland! This week, a road in Parma buckled due to heat. It's not even summer yet. If you don't like Cleveland-area weather, wait five minutes and slam on the brakes.

Papa drops in: Tom Papa was in town this week with a crew filming for his new Food Network show, "Baked With Tom Papa." As we've noted before, he's really into baking bread when he's not performing stand-up, handling all the comedy on "Live From Here" (formerly "A Prairie Home Companion") or acting for TV and film.

After hitting up Slyman's for a sandwich, then touring the Orlando Baking Co., which bakes the bread Slyman's uses, Papa dropped in to Pickwick & Frolic Tuesday night and entertained a stunned crowd during Mike Polk Jr.'s weekly cabaret show.

Papa read two essays from his book, due out Tuesday, "Your Dad Stole My Rake: And Other Family Dilemmas." They were hilarious and, actually, perfectly timed for Father's Day.

In a chapter on vacations, he discussed the role of the father with young children, which includes planning, paying and schlepping.

"You'll also have to carry everything that they own. Literally carry everything in a pile on your back and they climb on top of that pile like a small Peruvian lady. As you walk through the airport like a mule, like a human mule with canteens hitting your legs and flies in your eyes," he said.

"Have you ever see a donkey with flies in his eyes and think, 'Why doesn't he get those flies out of his eyes?' Now I know. I've seen a donkey's soul. He doesn't care about the flies. He's secretly hoping the fly eats through his eye and devours the part of his brain that feels and remembers."

Papa will be talking about the book, and reading excerpts, in June on "Conan" on TBS, "Late Night With Stephen Colbert" on CBS, on "Live from Here" on NPR stations and on "The Joe Rogan Experience" podcast.

His appearance was a pleasant addition to an already hilarious weekly "Mike Polk Jr. Show" in the Cabaret room at Pickwick & Frolic. Cleveland stand-up Liz Blanc, a high school teacher, was a hilarious highlight this week.

By the way, Papa headlines the big stage at Hilarities Nov. 8-10. Yes, he's so funny, you should reserve your tickets now.

At Hilarities: The hilarious Sklar Brothers, Jason and Randy, give you two headliners who look like one. You've probably seen them on commercials or TV appearances. If you saw them last year at Hilarities, there's a high likelihood you'll be back again this year.

The brothers headline Hilarities at 8 p.m. Thursday ($23), 7:30 and 10 p.m. Friday ($25), and 7 and 9:30 p.m. Saturday ($28). Hilarities is inside Pickwick & Frolic restaurant, 2035 East Fourth St., Cleveland. Call 216-736-4242 or go to pickwickandfrolic.com.

At the Improv: Always a big draw, Corey Holcomb, who dispenses advice and calls himself "the ghetto Dr. Phil," headlines the Cleveland Improv at 7:30 and 10 p.m. Friday, 7 and 9:30 p.m. Saturday, and 7 p.m. Sunday (tickets are $30-$40). The late show Saturday is already sold out. The Improv is at 1148 Main Ave., next to Shooters on the west bank of Cleveland's Flats. Call 216-696-4677 or go to clevelandimprov.com.

On Thursday, the headliner delivers local flavor as Jeff Blanchard, formerly of WNCX FM/98.5 and the Cabaret Dada improv troupe, takes the stage. Get ready for some well-placed rants. Blanchard performs at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. Tickets are $15.