Los Angeles Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani, of Japan, gestures as he gets out of the top of the first inning of a baseball game against the Tampa Bay Rays, Sunday, May 20, 2018, in Anaheim, Calif. (AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill) (Photo: The Associated Press)

Ticket sales for the Detroit Tigers - along with the rest of baseball - have been pretty slow so far this season.

But tonight's game against the Los Angeles Angels has more meaning, and it's leading to an uptick of interest on the secondary market.

Two words: Shohei Ohtani.

If you're a baseball fan, you already know who he is, but for those who need a quick explainer: Ohtani is the 23-year-old, two-way phenom signed by the Angels in the off-season from Japan. He hits and pitches — and does both very well.

As a right-handed pitcher, Ohtani is 4-1 with a 3.35 ERA and 1.07 WHIP. He's struck out 52 batters in 40.1 innings over 7 starts.

As a left-handed designated hitter, Ohtani is batting .291 with 6 home runs, 20 RBIs and 7 doubles in 30 games (103 at-bats). Because he's primarily used as a starting pitcher, Ohtani doesn't bat every day — but over the course of a full MLB season, that pace would be good for 30 homers and 100 RBIs.

MLB hasn't seen a two-way player like this since Babe Ruth. And that isn't an exaggeration.

Anyway, the Angels have tabbed Ohtani to start on the mound tonight against the Tigers at Comerica Park (7:10 p.m., FSD). It's the Tigers' first look at Ohtani the pitcher. And it's got folks searching for tickets on StubHub and other secondary ticket sites much more than usual.

More than 1,000 people are viewing tonight's game on StubHub, with tickets starting at $13 a pop as of Wednesday morning. By comparison, Thursday's game against the Angels, in the afternoon, starts at $6 per ticket and just 330 people are viewing the event as of Wednesday morning.

We're largely seeing the same trend on VividSeats: Slightly higher prices and fewer tickets available for tonight's game.

All things considered, tonight's prices still seem pretty cheap, given the fact that fans get to watch "the modern-day Babe Ruth." And considering the Tigers are 24-30 (hey, still good for second in the American League Central!), fans could use all the reasons they could get to enjoy a night at the ballpark.

Let's just hope the weather holds on long enough.

Contact Brian Manzullo: bmanzullo@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrianManzullo. Download our Tigers Xtra app for free on Apple and Android devices!