toyota

Toyota still No. 1, Mercedes passes BMW for No. 2 in ranking of most valuable car brands May 28 Author: Douglas A. Bolduc Toyota held on to its title as the world's most valuable car brand for the sixth year in a row while Mercedes passed BMW to finish second for the first time in an annual brand ranking.



Next-gen Toyota Corolla hatch to start at just over $20,000 May 25 Author: Laurence Iliff Toyota's redesigned Corolla hatchback, aimed at first-time buyers and manual-transmission fans, will go on sale in showrooms this summer for $20,910 for the entry-level model, including shipping.



Toyota will build fuel cell stack plant in Japan May 24 Toyota plans to build a plant to manufacture hydrogen fuel cell stacks, a key component of fuel cell vehicles, as it seeks to increase global annual sales of the vehicles to at least 30,000 from 3,000 now.



BMW, Toyota, Ford at odds with S. Africa over production boost plan May 22 BMW, Toyota and Ford are at odds with South Africa over its plans for them to more than double output and double their work forces in return for tax breaks.



Bracken retiring from Lexus, to be succeeded by deputy David Christ May 22 Author: Alexa St. John David Christ, who switched from the Toyota Division to Lexus at the start of this year, will succeed his boss, Jeff Bracken, who is retiring as head of Lexus' United States operations after 40 years with Toyota.



Worries about profitability as incentives climb May 21 Author: Laurence Iliff Toyota's Jim Lentz sees interest-rate increases, plateuing sales and a flood of off-lease vehicles as potential drags on profitability.



Toyota plans to roll into China's EV market in GAC vehicle May 21 Toyota is taking an unprecedented route to meet China's stringent green car quotas: Its showrooms will sell an EV without the Japanese company's triple-oval logo and instead will feature the label of GAC Motor, Toyota's China partner.



Subaru, Toyota team up for Crosstrek Hybrid May 21 Author: Jack Walsworth Subaru of America plans a plug-in hybrid version of the hot-selling Crosstrek subcompact crossover.



Toyota's Lentz on sticking with cars, avoiding pickup overbuilds, being ready for EVs May 14 Toyota North America CEO Jim Lentz says the automaker is eyeballing opportunities in passenger cars as rivals exit the segment. He also explains why there may be comfort in a shortage of Tacoma pickups and why being a laggard in EVs now won't hurt in the long run.



READY FOR BATTLE May 13 Author: Hans Greimel Akio Toyoda has a new cost-cutting mantra while preparing for a new round of belt-tightening – even as Toyota books record profit.



Toyota quarterly profit jumps 43% on cost cutting, lower expenses May 9 Author: Hans Greimel Toyota's operating profit surged 43 percent in the latest quarter as cost cutting, lower selling outlays and falling warranty expenses offset unfavorable foreign exchange rates and helped pilot the automaker to a record full-year net income.

