President Trump riled up the crowd Tuesday night at a Nashville rally that was partly aimed at promoting GOP Senate candidate Rep. Marsha Blackburn, but largely became a chance for Mr. Trump to trumpet his favorite themes. In his one-hour speech, the president hit on illegal immigration, the MS-13 gang, tax cuts and the Second Amendment, among other typical topics.

Mr. Trump made no reference to Roseanne Barr, whose ABC show "Roseanne" was canceled Tuesday after the actress tweeted a race-colored comment. The president has praised her and her show in the past.

Blackburn, R-Tenn., is vying to win the seat, which is up for grabs with Republican Sen. Bob Corker's retirement. Corker, who was in the crowd Tuesday night, was booed loudly when Mr. Trump mentioned his name. Blackburn faces stiff competition in Democrat Phil Bredesen — recent polling has shown them neck-and-neck in a state that voted for Mr. Trump by 16 points. On Tuesday night, Mr. Trump painted Bredesen as someone who will vote with the Democratic leadership in lock step.

"Marsha's very liberal Democrat opponent, Phil Bredesen, I never heard of this guy," Mr. Trump said Tuesday night. "Who is he? Who is he? He's an absolute total tool (pause) of Chuck Schumer. He's a tool (pause) of Chuck Schumer. And of course, the MS-13 lover, Nancy Pelosi." Not long after Mr. Trump mentioned Bredesen by name, he referred to him as "Phil whatever-the-hell-his-name-is."

Politifact has rated Mr. Trump's claim that she "came out in favor" of MS-13 as false, after Mr. Trump called the gang members "animals" earlier this month. The "animals" comment generated controversy for days.

Blackburn appeared on stage briefly, not sharing her own personal platform, but rather, praising the president and his policies so far. The president endorsed Blackburn on Twitter last month, saying Blackburn is "great on the military, border security and crime."

.@MarshaBlackburn is a wonderful woman who has always been there when we have needed her. Great on the Military, Border Security and Crime. Loves and works hard for the people of Tennessee. She has my full endorsement and I will be there to campaign with her! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2018

But Mr. Trump only somewhat stuck to 2018 politics in his speech. The president also emphasized the importance of standing for the national anthem in the NFL, and — in what might be a surprise move to the GOP — said his secretaries of labor and health will introduce a new health care plan in the next few weeks. Mr. Trump gave no details on that announcement. The president also said he'll be signing a bill approving billions of dollars for new airports shortly, with his "big, beautiful hands." That's seemingly a reference to the 2016 campaign, when an issue was made of the size of his hands. At the time, Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., said Mr. Trump had "small hands," and Mr. Trump defended his manhood.

Mr. Trump spent a significant portion of the rally on the topic of illegal immigration, reiterating his claim that Mexico will pay for the border wall, and will like it.

"They're going to pay for the wall and they're going to enjoy it," he said.

In a tweet shortly after the rally, Mexico's president said his country will "NEVER" pay for the wall.

President @realDonaldTrump: NO. Mexico will NEVER pay for a wall. Not now, not ever. Sincerely, Mexico (all of us). — Enrique Peña Nieto (@EPN) May 30, 2018

The president is expected to continue to campaign around the country to help elect or reelect Republicans, as Republicans hope to increase, or at least hold, their majority in the Senate. He has already done so in states like West Virginia and Indiana. Both those states have vulnerable Democratic senators in 2018.