In this June 22, 2015 photo, a Buick Verano is assembled at General Motors' Orion Assembly plant in Orion Township, (Photo: Carlos Osorio, AP)

Let's pretend for a moment that President Donald Trump has rationally thought through the implications of his threat to impose new tariffs on auto imports and to scuttle NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Not that I believe Trump has done that. His threat to pull the U.S. out of NAFTA strikes me, and many others, as the sort of bumptious sound bite geared to stirring enthusiasm among a key class of his constituents.

But let's suppose that a professional economist steeped in trade policy actually thought it a good idea to create stiff tariffs on imported cars and trucks to benefit U.S. car companies and autoworkers. What would that imply?

It would represent one of the rare instances in which the U.S. would be willing to push consumer prices higher to favor a class of American workers.

Think about it. In so many other industries — food production, fashion, electronics — we’re willing to drive consumer prices to the very bottom no matter the impact on workers or the environment.

Want to pay just $1 for a burger at your local fast food joint? You can do that only because we pay fast-food workers a less-than-living wage, and because we operate factory farms where a permanent underclass of workers toils and where animals are treated in ways we don't want to think about.

Interested in "fast fashion," inexpensive garments that consumers buy today and discard tomorrow when styles change? Cheap clothing comes to us from sweat shops in nations like Bangladesh, where factory managers would be imprisoned if they tried to operate in the same way in the U.S.

More: Analysts: Trump doesn't get the auto industry; tariffs hurt consumers

More: UAW President Dennis Williams praises Trump's tariff approach

More: Corker, U.S. Chamber blast Trump threat of auto tariffs

Or so you like your electronic gadgets cheap? Thank the Asian workers who work for the sort of low pay American workers would no longer tolerate.

Indeed, we're willing to disrupt entire industries, replacing brick-and-mortar stores with online shopping or upending the music business for the ease of consumers downloading tunes, all to achieve lower prices rather than protecting traditional workers.

Perhaps we could make a rational economic case for either keeping consumer prices low, as we do, or for protecting American workers by restricting imports, as Trump now proposes with tariffs on vehicles. But in effect Trump's threat presumes we can do both, protecting some U.S. workers while hurting others.

Maybe, as some have suggested, Trump's threats to impose vehicle tariffs and end NAFTA is a mere negotiating tactic, the blunt style of a man who's spent his life in the brutal fields of casinos and real estate development.

Or perhaps, as I suspect, Trump’s threat to scuttle NAFTA and impose stiff tariffs on imported vehicles makes sense only as pandering to a class of voters in the Midwest that helped elect him and form the core of his support.

But either way, it's hard to find an economist, or an automotive executive, willing to blow up the auto industry's intricate supply relationships just to bring a smidgen more production back to the U.S.

Why would vehicle prices rise if Trump pulls the U.S. out of NAFTA? Among the reasons: It threatens to disrupt the complicated set of supplier relationships spread over the U.S., Canada, and Mexico under which auto parts move tariff-free among a network of plants in the three countries. Imposing new duties on parts or finished vehicles that cross borders would inevitably drive up the final cost to consumers.

Slapping tariffs on imports also presumes that automakers operating in this country could easily ramp up production as foreign-made cars and trucks become too expensive. But production in the U.S. is already running full throttle, with 13 companies, ranging from GM and Ford to Toyota and Honda, churning out nearly 12 million cars and trucks each year.

Creating new tariffs also rests on a belief that consumer demand for new vehicles would remain strong even in the face of higher vehicle prices. But if that demand falls, tariffs could have the opposite effect than intended, leading to job losses among autoworkers.

And even if consumers are willing to pay higher prices for their vehicles, that would mean less cash in their pockets to spend on food, shelter, vacations and all the other goods and services that American workers produce.

That's why most economists preach that protectionist tariffs hurt rather than help our overall economy.

Trump has asserted that Canada and Mexico, our partners in NAFTA, are being unreasonable as trade negotiations move toward a conclusion. But who's really being unreasonable here?

Contact John Gallagher: 313-222-5173 or gallagher@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2x94iPn