In his first comments about the Roseanne Barr debacle, President Trump on Wednesday slammed the CEO of ABC’s parent Walt Disney Co. for not also apologizing to him.

“Bob Iger of ABC called Valerie Jarrett to let her know that ‘ABC does not tolerate comments like those’ made by Roseanne Barr. Gee, he never called President Donald J. Trump to apologize for the HORRIBLE statements made and said about me on ABC,” Trump tweeted.

“Maybe I just didn’t get the call?” he added in a fit of sarcasm.

Barr later retweeted his missive.

After ABC pulled the plug on “Roseanne” because of the acerbic comedian’s racist tweets, Iger said on Twitter: “There was only one thing to do here, and that was the right thing.”

Jarrett, a former Obama White House adviser who was the subject of some of Barr’s vile tweets, said she received a call from Iger Tuesday informing her about the show’s cancellation.

“Muslim brotherhood & planet of the apes had a baby=vj,” Barr tweeted in reference to Jarrett, who is black.

She also linked former first daughter Chelsea Clinton to billionaire George Soros, who she falsely claimed was a Nazi collaborator.

It was not immediately clear what “horrible statements” the president was referring to Wednesday, though he bashed ABC in December for an erroneous report that caused the Dow to drop more than 350 points.

Correspondent Brian Ross quoted a source as saying that during the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump had directed Michael Flynn to “make contact with the Russians.”

In fact, the ABC source said Trump directed Flynn – who was later ousted as national security adviser – to contact the Russians after he won the election – not before.

Iger also incurred Trump’s wrath in September when he assailed the president’s decision to end the Obama-era Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program.

“The Dreamers impacted by this cruel and misguided decision make significant contributions to our economy and our country,” Iger said at the time.

On Tuesday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders insisted that Trump was too busy to weigh in on the controversy engulfing Barr, his avid supporter.

“The president is focused on North Korea, he’s focused on trade deals,” she said aboard Air Force One when asked for Trump’s reactions.

n March, the president heaped praise on Barr for her reboot’s ratings.

“I called her yesterday. Look at her ratings! Look at her ratings! I got a call from Mark Burnett, he did ‘The Apprentice.’ He’s a great guy. He said, ‘Donald, I called just to say hello and to tell you did you see Roseanne’s ratings?’” Trump told supporters in Ohio.

“I said, ‘How big where they?’ They were unbelievable. Over 18 million people. And it was about us!” he crowed.