“I’m all or nothing. I’m either having fresh vegetables or I’m eating fried fish,” says Katie Lee, whose show “Beach Bites” returns to the Cooking Channel on June 7.

“You can deep-fry anything, and I would eat it.” Growing up in West Virginia, the chef started cooking at age 4 with her grandmother, Dora. That early passion translated into a thriving culinary career.

Lee, 36, has published three acclaimed cookbooks and appeared on countless cooking shows.

She received a Daytime Emmy nomination last year for her role as co-host of the Food Network’s “The Kitchen.” A longtime resident of Water Mill, she’s also become an advocate for local ingredients, from fresh fish caught in the Atlantic to wheat grown in Amagansett.

Whether it’s peanut-butter fro-yo or oysters by the bay, Lee explains how to eat like a true Hamptons insider.

The Dock House

1 Long Wharf, Sag Harbor; Order: Fried flounder + waffle fries

“Blink and you’ll miss it. It’s very small and on the wharf. It’s very casual, and you order at the counter. Sometimes I like to get it to go and eat by the water. Try the fried flounder — such a nice light breading — and waffle fries. I love a waffle fry.”

Buddha Berry

125 Main St., Sag Harbor; Order: Peanut-butter frozen yogurt

“I have always been a frozen-yogurt fan, but Buddha Berry is a cut above. I like peanut butter with hot fudge, peanut-butter sauce, smashed Reese’s Cups — and maybe a little bit of cookie dough if I am feeling naughty.”

Bell and Anchor

3253 Noyac Road, Sag Harbor; Order: Montauk Pearl oysters + Champagne

“It’s in the same marina where I keep my boat. On Sundays they have $1 oyster night, which I am hesitant to say because it’s already crowded. I love Montauk Pearl oysters. They are briny, creamy and sweet. To me, they are the perfect oyster.”

East Hampton Grill

99 N. Main St., East Hampton; Order: Ribs + martini

“East Hampton Grill is an all-time favorite. I love the atmosphere, and they make the best martinis anywhere around. But the ribs are just such great quality. The meat falls off the bone, and the barbecue sauce is sweet and tangy. You have to use your fingers. You can’t be precious about eating ribs.”

The Beacon

8 W. Water St., Sag Harbor; Order: Cheeseburger + rosé

“I love going to the Beacon at sunset because it’s right on the water. It might not be the restaurant people would think to go to for burgers — because they do a lot of really nice dishes — but they have the best cheeseburger in the Hamptons. It’s simple and perfect, and with a glass of rosé, it’s my idea of perfect night.”

Provisions

7 Main St., Sag Harbor; Order: Tempeh Reuben sandwich

“Provisions is a little health-food mart, and they have my favorite sandwich, the tempeh Reuben. It’s the stuff that dreams are made of. It’s a piece of tempeh with grated carrot, sauerkraut and a piece of melted Monterey Jack cheese. I’ve been going there for years.”

Carissa’s Breads

68 Newtown Lane, East Hampton; Order: Honey oat bread

“I think Carissa Waechter is such an incredible baker, and her business is awesome. Her wheat is grown in Amagansett and milled locally. Her shop looks like a Nancy Meyers movie. It’s so cute. If I’m going to someone’s house for dinner, the hostess gets a loaf of Carissa’s bread.”

Bostwick’s Chowder House

277 Pantigo Road, East Hampton; Order: Lobster roll

“It’s the best for roadside seafood. All of the seafood is local and fresh. I love the lobster roll. You really feel like you’re on vacation when you’re there.”

Nick and Toni’s

136 N. Main St., East Hampton; Order: Fried zucchini + roast chicken + tartufo

“Nick and Toni’s is a Hamptons classic. If it’s your first time in the Hamptons, it’s where you need to go. They’re famous for their zucchini chips and roast chicken with pancetta and garlic. But save room for dessert, because the tartufo is to die for. Request it as soon as you sit down for dinner, because they run out. It’s really sad if you don’t get any.”

Tastes of summer

Savor some of these culinary triumphs from the Hamptons.

Fans of much-loved Almond can grab ’n’ go to the beach this summer with favorites on offer at the new L&W Market, opening adjacent to the Bridgehampton restaurant (which also has an outpost in NYC’s Flatiron ’hood). Prepared foods straight from Almond’s kitchen can be found among other takeout items, such as its own frozen pastas, pastries, dressings and sauces. Fresh vegetables and eggs from nearby farms and the chefs’ own line of kimchi round out the fare, available for easy order and pickup via an online app.

Maison Vivienne, Southampton

Elevated flavors from the South of France land in Southampton with the new Maison Vivienne, a casually elegant scene for lunch and dinner. Classics like roasted heritage chicken for two and salad niçoise are accented with modern touches like charred escarole hearts and grilled langoustines. The luxurious venue boasts cathedral ceilings and exposed 17th-century beams, along with bar and lounge spaces, an onsite herb-and-vegetable garden and an outdoor terrace available for private events.

631-500-9276

The newly renovated Claude’s at Southampton Inn goes back to its roots as a comedy club with a lineup of live entertainment this summer, including jazz performances, poetry readings and more. The refreshed indoor and outdoor dining spaces serve as the perfect backdrop for executive chef James Carpenter’s menu, featuring vibrant meat, poultry and fish dishes made with vegetables and herbs from the inn’s own gardens. Plus, Carry-out Claude’s will cater the perfect beach picnic.

Hooked, Montauk

Veteran husband-and-wife foodies Brian and Gillian Mooney bring their open-kitchen and counter-service destination, Hooked, to Montauk this season. Primed to be a hot spot for lunch or a late afternoon snack, the restaurant focuses on casual, fresh seafood dishes. Diners will find options like pearl oysters, clams and steamers snatched from local sources, as well as land-dwelling fare like burgers and baby back ribs. Save room for the signature tiramisu and admire the sunset from one of the outdoor picnic tables.

Il Mulino, East Hampton

The elegance of New York gets a breezy dose of East Hampton’s Georgica Pond at this handsome new Il Mulino outpost. Indulge in mouthwatering pastas and antipasti — your new summer diet — and enjoy the same comforting hospitality that defines the expanding brand. Don’t fret if you’re not lucky enough to snag a coveted reservation at this new buzzy location — it also offers takeout.

Lee Brian Schrager is the founder and director of the Food Network & Cooking Channel South Beach and New York City Wine & Food Festivals.