On the day when all the Starbucks shops closed for sensitivity training and Roseanne Barr’s show was canceled after a racist tweet, Evanston residents gathered to talk about the pervasiveness of racism and the many forms it can take.

The city’s first-ever equity and empowerment coordinator, Patricia Efiom, hosted a series of so-called equity forums on Tuesday that were intended to be timed with the nationwide Starbucks shutdown. That the events occurred the day Barr was dropped from her network and talent agency after a widely condemned tweet was merely a timely example.

“American racism was alive and well in that (Starbucks) store,” Efiom said to a small group gathered at one of the talks. “We have to get to the root of the problem, especially between black males and white people.”

Participants watched the now-viral footage of the April episode that prompted the simultaneous sensitivity training of tens of thousands of Starbucks workers, when an employee called police on two African-American men who hadn’t ordered anything.

“We all come to situations with our implicit biases,” Efiom said. “How do we move forward in a way that prevents these things from happening?”

She also said Evanston continues to be a community divided along racial lines.

“We really do live in two Evanstons,” she said.

Chana Bursztyn recently lived in Philadelphia before moving back to the Chicago area. She said she decided to attend one of the Evanston forums because she wants to better understand what was at the root of what happened in the Philadelphia Starbucks.

“It was kind of shocking,” she said. “I thought, why do simple situations escalate so quickly? I imagined what would I do if I was there. Obviously these were peaceful people and they were treated like criminals. It’s awful.”

The Rev. Michael Nabors of Second Baptist Church and president of the Evanston/North Shore NAACP, said he hoped the equity forums would mark the beginning, not an end, of a discussion on race in the north suburb.

“The discussions that are occurring today need to be discussions on race relations that are going to be a permanent part of the fabric of the community,” said Nabors.

Efiom asked forum participants to think about how and if racism played a role in the Philadelphia Starbucks incident with questions like: Who if anyone was acting in a racially motivated way? The Starbucks manager who called the police? The dispatcher who sent officers to the restaurant? The responding officers? The white customers who were seen on the video intervening?

“Where does the act of racism occur?” she asked.

Nabors said it was obvious to him that racism was a factor in the arrest, and also that he was not surprised by what happened.

“At some point, you have to put your humanity in a situation like that, especially when there wasn’t any danger that occurred,” he said. “It simply ended in the wrong way. ”

The city of Evanston has itself also had to confront claims of racism. Last year, it agreed to a $500,000 payment to settle a racial discrimination lawsuit brought by a former city employee.

The city council at the time stressed they settled to avoid a costly and difficult legal battle but did not believe the city was at fault.

Efiom said Tuesday that in many such discrimination lawsuits, getting to the truth can be difficult.

“What are the circumstances?” Efiom said when asked about the lawsuit. “What do we know? What do we not know? I trust that our city council is going to do what they have to do.”

Brian L. Cox is a freelance reporter.

RELATED

'All eyes are on Starbucks' as it seeks to fight discrimination »