Buy Photo UAW president Dennis Williams speaks with reporters during a roundtable discussion at the UAW headquarters in Detroit in July 2017. (Photo: Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

President Donald Trump won praise from UAW President Dennis Williams, who said Thursday that American workers want current trade policy changed and like the idea of new tariffs on foreign cars.

"I welcome the fact that they're investigating this and considering," Williams told a media roundtable at union headquarters in Detroit. "The American workers have been handed a short stick for a long time."

Williams, one of the country's top leaders in organized labor, said Trump is echoing consistent themes that helped him win the presidential election with the support of blue-collar workers.

Read more:

"When he is working in the best interest of working men and women in this country on trade and things that really impact the working class, then we will support him," said Williams, who represents 430,000 dues-paying union members.

The tariff review process is long and complicated — and necessary, he said.

"The United States has became a dumping ground for a lot of countries," Williams said.

He complained that foreign governments subsidize U.S. competitors and create an unfair landscape for American workers. He is watching Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross with interest.

"I thought we should be looking at imports a long time ago," Williams said.

Still, Trump's announcement Wednesday that he was seeking a review of whether auto imports damage national security took the union by surprise.

"During our NAFTA discussion, there was discussion about trade in general. The administration never indicated they were looking at broadening the scope of their investigation or anything," he said. "I would say we were unaware of it just like the majority of people in the United States."

A key concern is the fact that the U.S. lacks a comprehensive trade strategy that protects manufacturing and national interests, as other countries do, Williams said. Organized labor is eager to hear how the president plans to implement proposed changes and the potential long-term effect.

"How does that impact trade as a whole?" Williams asked cautiously, noting that he also represents agricultural workers who depend on exports.

"I do support anytime we look at these things. I do think they ought to evaluate — are they dumping or saturating the market so that it’s a detriment to our industries? I think that's important to us as a nation, important to our sovereignty. People are free traders to the detriment of our country."

While the UAW leadership is intrigued, Williams said he can't say he's fully behind Trump until he learns more detail. But labor is aligned with Trump's vision, Williams reiterated.

Does that mean the UAW will support Republican candidates in the midterm elections? Not likely, because most Republicans don't voice support for Trump's protectionist trade positions, Williams said.

Republicans signed onto the North American Free Trade Agreement then advocated by President Bill Clinton, Williams noted.

"They totally ignored the needs of working men and women in this country. I don't paint everybody with the same brush. When I say we support President Trump on these issues, it's not reflective of the Republican Party. Maybe that'll change."

He continued, "When I say I support President Trump's positions on trade, from my discussions with the president and discussions we’ve had ... with Wilbur Ross, if they do what they say they're going to do, we will be there to support them."

Organized labor wants the U.S. and Canada pressure Mexico to allow for independent unions so workers can get fair wages and have the ability to buy products they build, Williams said. "We want them to become consumers so we can sell to them like they sell to us."

With the auto industry robust, now is as good a time as any to have sensitive discussions, Williams said. "I don't know that there's ever a particularly good time to raise these questions. I think it's worth raising."

No question, there is "always a conflict" between the views of workers and corporations when it comes to trade, he said. 'It's different interests, I think. Let me just leave it at that."

Williams spent an hour taking questions from reporters during his final round table before retiring in June.

Auto industry analysts say American consumers will be hurt if Trump follows through in adding a major tax on imported trucks, cars and auto parts.

They say his call for tariffs reflects a lack of understanding of the intricacy of the auto supply chain, and expressed alarm at Trump's move Wednesday to order a Commerce Department investigation of the possibility.

Contact Phoebe WallHoward: phoward@freepress.com or 313-222-6512. Follow her on Twitter @phoebesaid.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2s9YhMK