When you watched 2015's The Force Awakens, you likely were a bit confused about the state of the Star Wars galaxy. After all, we last saw the galaxy celebrating the end of the Empire and their newfound independence at the end of Return of the Jedi, and yet here we were a generation later and it felt the same and different at the same time.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Thanks to a new live-action series headed to Disney’s streaming platform next year, we’re about to find out. At a recent screening of the upcoming movie Solo: A Star Wars Story, Jon Favreau got to talk about his Star Wars project, a live-action TV show that will take place seven years after Return of the Jedi. YouTube channel Star Wars explains already has some interesting ideas about the series:

As the video mentions, the new Star Wars book Last Shot takes place three years after the Battle of Endor and then nothing is mentioned (at least in the new canon) until the book Bloodline, about 24 years after the Battle of Endor. So Favreau has a significant chunk of time to work with.

There have been no details about this upcoming series except for Favreau's involvement, but this news means that the new series will likely show us more of the New Republic, founded by the leaders of the Rebellion after the fall of the Empire.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Seven years after the Battle of Endor, the New Republic is at its strongest, and the tattered remnants of the empire that would form the First Order are still hiding in the furthest corners of the galaxy. It's unlikely any actors in the films will make appearance—the timelines don't quite sync up—but they'll hopefully be mentioned in passing.

Other than that, we're still not sure what to expect from Favreau's Star Wars creation, the first live-action TV show in the franchise's history. Let’s hope this new series provides some answers to those who were more than a little confused when sitting in theaters for The Force Awakens.

Source: io9