As early as today, the Illinois state Senate may consider concurrence on House Amendment 1 to Senate Bill 337, which will not only shut down your local gun stores with red tape, but also establish a registration scheme for firearm transfers. In addition, the state House of Representatives may consider House Amendment 1 to Senate Bill 3256 to expand the 72 hour waiting period to all firearms. Please urge your state Senator to OPPOSE HA 1 to SB 337 and your state Representative to OPPOSE HA 1 to SB 3256! Click the “Take Acton” button below to contact your state legislators.





House Amendment 1 to Senate Bill 337, offered by Representative Kathleen Willis (D-77), was passed by the state House with a vote of 65-49. It would direct the state police to create an electronic transaction form for firearm transfers, which would amount to a registry. This solution in search of a problem will not only waste taxpayer funded resources, but it would also not improve public safety. Criminals, by definition, do not obey the law, and acquire the vast majority of their firearms illegally such as by theft, on the black market, or by straw purchase. A registry would not affect criminals as it could only include lawful transactions. The only purpose that firearm registries serve is to facilitate future confiscations of firearms from those who currently own them legally.

In addition, HA 1 to SB 337 would create onerous gun dealer licensing within the state. While the purported intent of this legislation was to enhance “responsible business practices,” this bill only proves that the intention is to close as many federally licensed firearm dealers (FFLs) as possible. The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) licenses and closely monitors all FFLs and strictly enforces any violation of federal law. HA 1 to SB 337 goes so far beyond federal law in its mandatory regulations and red tape imposed at the state level that they would almost assuredly force the closure of most firearm dealers and prevent prospective owners from opening new ones. This legislation seeks to create so many department divisions, anti-gun 5-member licensing boards, and licensing fees that dealers would be forced to close through oversight by anti-gun appointees or being priced out of business.

House Amendment 1 to Senate Bill 3256, offered by Representative Jonathan Carroll (D-57), would also expand the 72 hour waiting period to all firearms. In addition, it would eliminate the current waiting period exemption for nonresidents attending gun shows in Illinois. Current Illinois law requires a 72 hour waiting period for handguns and a 24 hour waiting period for long guns. Waiting periods are an archaic relic from before the digital age, since they were originally meant to give local law enforcement time to complete background checks. Since the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) came into operation in 1998, technology has allowed background checks to be done instantly, activating the law that eliminated the federally required waiting periods.

Again, please click the “Take Action” button above to urge your state Senator to OPPOSE HA 1 to SB 337 and your state Representative to OPPOSE HA 1 to SB 3256. In addition, you may click here to find your state legislators.