U.S. Special Operations Forces operate a fleet of portable, rapidly deployable field workshops that can repair, manufacture, or even improve equipment in the field. The workshops, known as Mobile Technology Repair Complexes, are powered by renewable energy and stuffed with tools including lathes, welders, and 3D printers. MTRCs have proven their worth in the war against the Islamic State in Syria, quickly building ad hoc medical facilities from available materials.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

According to DefenseOne, U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM) has thirteen MTRCs worldwide. The complexes are designed to be portable and capable of rapidly moving into war zones, supporting special forces working in dangerous areas with a minimum of support. The complexes are modular, with individual modules based on eight foot shipping containers that expand, tent-like, to a length of twenty four feet. Each module can be carried by a five ton truck or slung underneath a CH-47 Chinook transport.

Department of Defense

There are four different modules that make up a MTRC. The first is the headquarters module, which includes communications (including videoconferencing), electronics, and CAD computer workstations. A “tool room” module has a lathe/mill, welders, cutters, and other specialized tools. A vehicle repair module has the equipment needed to work on vehicles and vehicle mounted weapons, and a fourth module provides electrical power, using gas generators, solar power, wind power, and batteries to store electricity.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

A company that works on MTRCs, SkyBridge Tactical, describes their capabilities as:

Equipment Training, Modification Maintenance & Repair: Engineering, 3D printing/prototyping, CAD, Welding, Machining, Manufacturing, HVAC support, General Construction, Electrical Support, Generator Repair, Thermoplastics Accessory Fabrication, Power Fabrication (including solar), Sewing (repair / fabrication of individual Soldier equipment), NVG repair, and Weapons Maintenance and Repair. Rapid Prototyping, Beta Testing & Instrument Test Support.

A SOCOM slide show (PDF) published in 2010 describes two real-world uses of the MTRCs. In one case, a complex was used to mount a second heavy weapon on an armored Humvee, giving the special forces crews additional firepower. In another, operators rigged up a replacement power supply for an electrically powered Gatling gun, putting it back into action. DefenseOne also gives a more recent example: a MTRC supporting U.S. forces in Syria welded together two transportable sleeping units to create a frontline emergency room.

Source: DefenseOne