US hands two planes to Chad for anti-terror campaign



by Staff Writers



N'Djamena (AFP) May 2, 2018



The United States on Wednesday formally handed over to Chad two light reconnaissance aircraft intended to help its forces fight a jihadist insurgency.

Two single-engine Cessna 208Bs planes were officially transferred to the Chadian air force in a ceremony at its base outside the capital N'Djamena.

The planes were delivered in December 2017 and have since been used for pilot training.

The US has also helped to build shelters and maintenance areas for Chadian aircraft, after a damaging windstorm in 2017 damaged air force facilities.

Together, the donated equipment and work amount to $43 million (36 million euros), said US ambassador Geeta Pasi, who attended the ceremony.

A vast, poor country in central-northern Africa, Chad is struggling with a jihadist insurgency that has spilled over from neighbouring Nigeria.

The country is allied with the United States in anti-terror operations, authorising the US military to have a drone unit, according to a Chadian military official.

However, relations were troubled last year when President Donald Trump unexpectedly slapped a travel ban on Chadian nationals -- one of six mainly Muslim countries to be so affected.

The ban on Chadians was to be lifted on April 13 after Chad "raised its security standards," the US Department of Homeland Security announced last month.

The former US secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, in a trip to N'Djamena in March, said Chad had made steps "to strengthen the control over its own passports, to strengthen the information-sharing".

On Monday, Trump, meeting visiting Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari, said he was prepared to sell Nigeria helicopters in addition to a dozen A-29 Super Tucano light fighter aircraft as part of its anti-jihadism campaign.



Related Links

The Long War - Doctrine and Application





Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution. SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



Tehran (AFP) April 19, 2018

