Key Points

A US lawmaker proposed banning F-35 sales to Turkey

Turkey is a full F-35 partner and will likely buy 100 F-35As

Representative David Cicilline of Rhode Island’s legislation prohibits the sale or transfer of F-35 aircraft and any intellectual property (IP) or technical data to Turkey, according to a statement. The ban can only be lifted if the US president certifies that Turkey is not taking steps to degrade North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) interoperability, exposing NATO assets to hostile actors, and degrading the general security of NATO member countries.

The bill also requires that Turkey is not seeking to import or purchase defence articles from a foreign country under US sanctions, wrongfully or unlawfully detaining one or more US citizens, or engaging in military action without taking proper steps to ensure that international legal norms are followed to prevent civilian deaths and suffering.

Turkey is a partner on the F-35 programme and joined during the system development and demonstration (SDD) phase. As a partner, Turkish industries are eligible to become suppliers to the global F-35 fleet for the life of the programme with industrial opportunities expected to reach USD12 billion, according to Lockheed Martin.

Turkey plans to purchase 100 conventional F-35A aircraft. The Pentagon’s F-35 Joint Program Office (JPO) did not respond to a request for comment by press time. Cicilline’s office was unable to respond to a request for comment by press time. A staffer with Cicilline’s office said a similar amendment has been drafted for when the House considers the fiscal year 2019 defence authorisation bill. Cicilline serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

Cicilline said Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has grown increasingly authoritarian in recent years, cracking down on dissent and free speech. Erdogan’s bodyguards attacked peaceful protesters in Washington in 2017 in an incident that drew widespread condemnation from Congress.