CLOSE Hours before Christian Bales was set to give his valedictory speech, his Catholic high school decided to stop him. But he found a way to deliver it anyway. USA TODAY

Christian Bales has fought many battles as a gay high school student. Now it continues through graduation, thanks to the Catholic Church.

Christian Bales, the valedictorian of Holy Cross High School, delivers his graduation speech outside with a megaphone after the ceremony took place.The Diocese of Covington last weekend banned the graduation speeches from the Bales and student council president of the school, with officials saying they contained "elements that were political and inconsistent with the teaching of the Catholic Church." (Photo: Provided)

This valedictorian's speech was censored. Now it's being heard across the country.

Christian Bales, 2018 valedictorian of Holy Cross High School in Covington, Kentucky, was not allowed to deliver his commencement speech last Friday after school officials had issues with its message.

In an interview with The New York Times, Bales, 18, said that he was told Friday that the Diocese of Covington had decided that the speech was angry, confrontational, political and personal.

In the speech, which was later posted to DocumentCloud.org, Bales encouraged students to embrace advocacy and work toward a better world where victory is gauged by "the amount of hearts we can cleanse."

“I did not think the speech was polarizing at all,” he told the The New York Times, adding that he was given no time for revisions.

Instead, Bales and class president Katherine Frantz, whose speech was also rejected, delivered their addresses via bullhorn after the ceremony was concluded, surrounded by supportive teachers and students.

More: Gay valedictorian delivered speech through megaphone after it was rejected by Catholic school

More: Class of 2018, doing the right thing is your job

Bales is uniquely qualified to talk about advocacy and the importance of speaking out despite adversity.

He's openly gay and gender non-conforming. He frequently wears make-up and wore high heels to the senior prom, but agreed to the school's request that he attend graduation “in appropriate male dress,” The New York Times reported.

But the speech apparently upset the Diocese because it cites the efforts of Holy Cross students to relocate the Jefferson Davis Memorial in Kentucky Capitol and the work of Stoneman Douglas High School students who have lobbied for stricter gun control after a teenage gunman murdered 17 classmates and teachers in Florida.

But Bales was being too confrontational by praising the tide of advocacy spurred by the killings. He was being too angry by referencing the rising tide of slaughter on school grounds.

He has every right to be angry but instead wrote a wildly positive and uplifting commencement speech. He was dressed appropriately. He praised faculty. He did not reference his sexuality. He even gave a shout-out to recent student advocacy at a pro-life march, absolutely conforming to Catholic doctrine.

More: Tomi Lahren: Free speech doesn't give you the right to attack someone

POLICING THE USA: A look at race, justice, media

And yet it was all too much for a religion that favors silence. But in a delicious instance of karmic justice, that speech is now being heard nationally instead of at a school assembly.

The Diocese released the following statement:

School officials and representatives of the Diocese of Covington reserve the right to review and approve all student speeches to be presented in public at high school graduations. All speeches must be submitted in a timely manner. The student speeches for the Holy Cross High School graduation were not submitted for review before the deadline. When the proposed speeches were received, they were found to contain elements that were political and inconsistent with the teaching of the Catholic Church.

Bales told USA TODAY that he and Frantz turned in their speeches on Tuesday, three days before the ceremony, and that they were approved by Holy Cross officials.

Jeffrey Lee Puckett: 502-582-4160; jpuckett@courierjournal.com; Twitter: @JLeePuckett.

Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2LJjCWj