Score one for civility.

A controversial video game that would allow players to simulate a school shooting has been removed from its digital storefront after widespread criticism from parents, lawmakers, police and even gamers who trashed it as “morally corrupt.”

In a statement late Tuesday, a spokesman for Valve Corporation, which runs the digital distribution storefront Steam, said it removed the developer, Revived Games, and its publisher, Acid, from the platform for introducing the game, “Active Shooter.”

“This developer and publisher is, in fact, a person calling himself Ata Berdiyev, who had previously been removed last fall when he was operating as ‘[bc]Interactive’ and ‘Elusive Team,’” the statement read. “Ata is a troll, with a history of customer abuse, published copyright material, and user review manipulation. His subsequent return under new business names was a fact that came to light as we investigated the controversy around his upcoming title. We are not going to do business with people who act like that towards our customers or Valve.”

Doug Lombardi, a spokesman for Valve, said the company will also have a “broader conversation” soon about all content on its online platform, which planned to charge between $5 and $10 starting on June 6 for the game.

More than 194,000 people as of Wednesday signed an online petition demanding that Valve, a Washington state-based firm, pull the plug on the “horrific” game, in which users could play either as a mass shooter or as a member of a responding SWAT team.

“The company is taking the stand that this game is legal because of free speech and everything else that tech billionaires hide behind when they are doing something the public knows is absolutely morally corrupt but legally fine — but we cannot stand for this,” the petition read. “How can anyone sleep at night knowing that they are profiting from turning deadly school shootings into entertainment?”

Andrew Pollack, whose 18-year-old daughter, Meadow, was killed during the Feb. 14 massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, told the Miami Herald that the “sick people” behind the game were contributing to the desensitization to violence that ultimately claimed the life of his daughter.

“The last thing we need is a simulated training on school shooting,” Pollack told the newspaper. “Video game designers should think of the influence they hold. This really crosses the line.”

A description of the game includes a disclaimer for players not to “take any of this seriously” and to seek professional help if they start to feel like hurting other people.

“This is only meant to be the simulation and nothing else,” the website reads.

Stephanie Robinett, a mother from Seattle, started the petition because she was tired of children being gunned down in shootings at schools throughout the country, a representative from Change.org confirmed to The Post.

Other Revived Games titles are also no longer available on Steam, including “Tyde Pod Challenge” and “White Power: Pure Voltage.” Berdiyev, meanwhile, was previously booted from Valve’s platform after releasing a game called “Piccled Ricc” based on an episode of Cartoon Network’s “Rick and Morty.” In that game, Berdiyev utilized pre-purchased video game assets and combined them with crude cartoon models, leading to a copyright complaint issue, Motherboard reported.