volkswagen

Germany's Grammer in talks with Chinese 'white knight' over takeover bid May 29 Grammer is in talks over a deal that would allow its takeover by Jifeng Auto, a former "white knight" that helped to defend the German seat maker against aggressive intervention by the Hastor family.



Audi CEO says diesel crisis not over and vows to stay on May 25 Audi CEO Rupert Stadler said the company's diesel emissions affair was not over and promised to stay at the helm of the German luxury automaker, a German newspaper reported.



VW CEO counts on diplomacy to ease trade spat with U.S. May 25 Volkswagen CEO Herbert Diess is hopeful that diplomacy can help defuse trade tensions with the United States, which is exploring putting tariffs on auto imports.



In race for self-driving cars, automakers turn tables on Apple, Waymo May 25 A few years ago, Apple was in the driving seat as it sought to carve out self-driving deals with automakers including Volkswagen. Now the tables have turned.



VW to reinstate lobbyist after suspension over diesel fume tests, report says May 25 Volkswagen plans to reinstate its chief lobbyist, Thomas Steg, who was suspended while the company investigated his role in tests that exposed monkeys and humans to toxic diesel fumes, a German newspaper reported.



EPA, U.S. monitor rap pace of culture change at VW May 24 A top EPA official says he is not satisfied with Volkswagen AG's efforts to improve accountability after the company's sweeping diesel emissions fraud and violations, a German newspaper reported Thursday.



Apple to use VW self-driving vans for employees May 23 Apple and Volkswagen struck a deal that let the technology giant equip VW vans with self-driving technology to transport Apple employees between offices, according to a person familiar with the matter.



AutoNews Now: Fire damages newly built Jeeps May 21 Fire damages newly built Jeeps; Trump signs bill overturning lending guidance; CR not recommending Tesla Model 3; Nissan's short-term pain; Solid future for Fisker?; Audi Q8 tease.



READY TO PEAK May 21 Volkswagen's I.D. R is primed to topple records at the Pikes Peak International Hill Climb.



Wurst to 1st: Sausage No. 1 for VW May 21 Last week the meatiest news making the rounds was that Volkswagen's in-house currywurst-making operation was celebrating its 45th anniversary.



The power behind the throne at Volkswagen May 21 Wolfgang Porsche, chairman of the supervisory board of Porsche and head of the family that controls Volkswagen Group, touches on topics such as electrification, bureaucratic overregulation and his relationship -- or lack thereof -- with his famous cousin.

