volvo

Lynk & CO steers clear of Volvo's looks May 27 Geely's Lynk & CO luxury startup wanted a blank-sheet approach to design -- even as Volvo helped create it.



Safety-minded Volvo takes some chances May 23 Author: Katie Burke Volvo hopes so as it takes bold steps to re-establish itself as more than a niche brand for staid college professors and safety-obsessed parents.



Why Volvo CEO says now is the time for the brand 'to perform and grow' May 18 Volvo CEO Hakan Samuelsson expects the Swedish brand to capitalize on what he calls the strongest product lineup in the company's history.



Volvo to dump diesel from next S60 sedan May 16 Author: Douglas A. Bolduc Volvo will not offer a diesel in its new S60 sedan, which will debut this spring and will be built at the automaker's new U.S. plant. The move comes as Volvo accelerates its shift toward electrified powertrains and away from diesels, which accounted for nearly 80 percent of its sales in Europe last year.



First Shift: Volvo Cars to stop developing diesels May 16 Volvo Cars to stop developing diesels; Menu of CAFE options?; Ford stock downgraded; At Tesla: A shutdown, a proposed shakeup and a Soros stake; U.S. roadblocks for autonomous cars.



Geely hires advisers for possible Volvo stock offering, report says May 10 Volvo Cars owner Zhejiang Geely has selected Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to advise on an initial public stock offering for the Swedish carmaker this year, Bloomberg reported.



Ingenlath to speak at Europe congress May 7 Thomas Ingenlath, CEO of Polestar, Volvo's spinoff performance electrification brand, will be among the speakers at the Automotive News Europe Congress in Turin, Italy, on June 6.



Volvo offers incentives to Costco members May 7 Author: James B. Treece Volvo Car USA has unveiled special incentives in partnership with the Costco Auto Program that mirror ones it offered last summer.



Volvo Q1 profit rises nearly 4% on China, U.S. demand April 27 Volvo reported a rise in quarterly operating earnings as growing sales in China and a recovery in the United States offset increased development and marketing costs.



GM, Volvo team with Amazon to deliver packages to customers' cars April 24 Author: Douglas A. Bolduc Michael Wayland General Motors and Volvo have partnered with Amazon to offer customers in-vehicle delivery of packages in the United States.



Daimler may buy tiny stake in Volvo, report says April 19 Daimler is open to supplying Volvo with engines and could even take a small stake in the Swedish automaker, a German business magazine reported, raising the possibility of increased ties between Mercedes and Volvo's Chinese owner, Geely.

