BY ETHAN KASSEL

Serra 60, #6 St. Ignatius 59

In its 40-year history, the Jungle Game has seen its share of wild finishes. Great players who wore the jerseys of Serra and St. Ignatius have been written in the history books for their heroics before some of the best crowds in the Bay Area. In the 2017 edition, it was Parker McDonald who joined the ranks of the elite. The Serra sophomore’s buzzer-beating 3-pointer gave the host Padres a 60-59 win and set off a raucous celebration as the white-clad Padre student section poured on to the court to celebrate.

Matt Redmond gave St. Ignatius a 58-56 lead on his 3-pointer from the corner with 59 seconds remaining. McDonald was fouled with 41.4 seconds remaining, but he missed the first of his two free throws and was only able to cut the deficit to one. Serra still had two fouls to give, and the Padre defense forced a turnover to get the ball back with 20.5 seconds remaining. The St. Ignatius defense answered, as Redmond and Darrion Trammell forced a jump ball, with the possession arrow pointing to the visitors with eight seconds remaining. Redmond was fouled with 5.9 seconds remaining, and he made the first of two free throws. Henry James grabbed the rebound after the second free throw was missed, and Serra called timeout with 4.3 seconds left. Even against a tight double-team, McDonald was able to get off his shot from in front of the Serra student section, and it hit nothing but net as the buzzer sounded.

The ending proved a harsh reality for St. Ignatius (19-4, 10-3). The Jungle Game is the most difficult of uphill battles. Serra’s Morton Family Gymnasium is typically harsh to visiting shooters. Combine those rims with a wild home crowd, and consider that referees likely won’t do anything to run afoul of that crowd.

With those conditions in mind, St. Ignatius head coach Rob Marcaletti was proud of his team’s efforts. “A lot of teams come in to Serra and play scared because of the crowd. We weren’t scared. We were hungry. It’s a testament to our program and the players we have.”

If anything, the excitement was a problem for the visiting Wildcats. “Our execution could’ve been better throughout. We were sloppy at times, and we sped ourselves up,” said Marcaletti. Had it not been for that sloppiness throughout the game, it wouldn’t have come down to the final plays.

Even on that final play, the St. Ignatius defense was perfect. “They had to go the whole court. We were double-teaming McDonald the entire way. Our plan was to push everything to the outside, and the next man came up to keep the double-team going when they set the screen. He made a fadeaway shot with two defenders in his face.”

The excellent defense screwed up Serra’s plans on the final play. “Coach said to just get it and go, and to try to get to the rack. I didn’t see the lane to the basket, so I just put up the shot,” said McDonald.

The madcap finish was a fitting end to a nailbiter in which neither team led by more than six points. The score was tied 9 times and the lead changed hands 12 times.

Until McDonald’s unforgettable game-winner, Jack Wilson was Serra’s star. The 7-1 junior was held to just two first-half points, but scored 14 in the second half. “Coach talked to me and said I needed to forget about the other seven-footers I played against during the summer and use my traditional moves,” said the Oregon State commit.

Among those moves was an excellent turnaround shot that worked to perfection against an undersized St. Ignatius team. The Wildcats were without sophomore center Jaedon Roberts, and while Teddy Snyder and Daniel Begovich filled in admirably in his absence, but both found themselves in foul trouble. SI had to resort to using players off the bench who hadn’t seen playing time outside of the final moments of blowouts.

Not only did Wilson score frequently in the second half, he did so at critical moments. His steal and layup capped off a 6-0 run to tie the game at 34 midway through the third. A turnaround shot gave the Padres a 54-51 lead with 3:24 to go before St. Ignatius quickly tied the game with an Arjun Gujral free throw and a steal and layup by Darrion Trammell. Though Trammell struggled from the field, scoring just four points, he was a major part of the St. Ignatius defense and tallied four assists, including one on Redmond’s go-ahead 3-pointer.

Wrenn Robinson, the only sophomore in the Wildcat starting lineup, finished with eight points, the last of which was a free throw with 2:25 to go to give his team a 55-54 lead. McDonald’s drive and layup put the Padres back on top with 1:14 to go and set up the finish that will be remembered for generations to come.

McDonald finished with 15 points for Serra (12-11, 6-7 WCAL). Redmond and Brandon Beckman each scored 17 for St. Ignatius (19-4, 10-3).

Though it was Senior Night at Serra, the box score was filled with contributions from underclassmen that will likely play a major hand in the rivalry in the following years. The two teams will have more returning talent than anyone else in the WCAL next year. Isaac Loera was the top contributor among the few seniors on the floor, scoring seven points for Serra.

As exciting as next year’s meetings between Serra and St. Ignatius will be, there’s a very real possibility the two teams meet again within the next few weeks. Both expect to be in the CCS Open Division, which would provide the opportunity for a rematch within the eight-team bracket. St. Ignatius will likely be the second seed behind Bellarmine (22-1, 13-0), which sealed the outright WCAL championship on Wednesday night. The Wildcats will have a chance to spoil Bellarmine’s perfect WCAL season and snap their own two-game losing streak on Saturday night, while Serra will travel to Valley Christian (11-11, 4-9).

BAY COUNTIES LEAGUE WEST PLAYOFFS

University 70, Urban 61: Spencer Spivy had 25 pounts and eight assists and Max Fried added 21 points and four assists for University, which moves into the playoff finals against Lick-Wilmerding, a 66-59 winner over Stuart Hall.

Julian Manyika added 13 points for University and Leo Krinsky had 15 points for Urban. The Red Devils advanced to their ninth consecutive BCL playoff title game, which takes place 6 p.m. Saturday at Kezar Pavilion.

In Lick-Wilmerding’s win, Zach Johnson had 22 points and Chip Thompson 15 for the winners, while Dontay Stewart hit seven three-pointers and scored 23 points for Stewart Hall.