CLEVELAND, Ohio - A gluten-free meal in a pinch is tough, especially when you're on the road. And there's only so many times you can run into a convenience store and grab a granola bar or a bag of chips before you want something that slightly resembles a meal - even if it's fast food.

Finding some of the best options for gluten-free fast food has been a goal of mine for a while now. And we've covered quite a few options - Chipotle, Panera, Chick-fil-A and Jersey Mike's to name a few.

Next up is Wendy's. There's no nutritional information page, which would be ideal, but if you click into each menu item you can see allergen information, as well as a nutritional breakdown such as calories, fiber, protein and fat.

Also less than ideal, there's no information on modification. So if you're wondering if a cheeseburger without a bun is gluten-free, the only way to find out is to click on the ingredients list, where you can see each ingredient in the food item. At the end of the ingredients is a disclaimer for allergens. For example, if there's ketchup on a burger, the ingredients list lays out what is in the ketchup and also alerts the consumer that it contains eggs.

Although not readily available on one clean page, Wendy's does provide the necessary information to create a meal that is gluten-free. I combed through the site to find the menu items that are gluten-free without modification and they are as follows:

Breakfast:

Sausage Breakfast Bowl

Bacon Breakfast Bowl

Homestyle Potatoes

Apple Bites

Frosty:

Chocolate Frosty

Vanilla Frosty

Sides:

French Fries (ask about shared fryer)

Baconator Fries (ask about shared fryer)

Chili Cheese Fries (ask about shared fryer)

Chili

Sour Cream and Chive Baked Potato

Plain Potato

Bacon Cheese Baked Potato

Chili Cheese Baked Potato

Cheese Baked Potato

Salads:

Southwest Avocado Chicken Salad

Taco Salad

Power Mediterranean Chicken Salad

Apple Pecan Chicken Salad

Again, many other menu items can be made gluten-free with modifications such as ditching the bun or removing items like croutons. So if there's something you were hoping to try, make sure to utilize the specific ingredients list to find out which part of the menu item contains gluten.

Have you eaten gluten-free at Wendy's? What's your go-to meal? Let us know in the comments.

Reporter Hannah Drown writes a weekly column about gluten-free living for cleveland.com. She has been gluten-free since she was diagnosed with celiac disease in 2011. You can read more of the Gluten-Free series here on cleveland.com or on Drown's Facebook page.