Buy Photo Designed by William Stratton, the Stearns mansion has similar medieval massing and Arts and Crafts details as the building he designed to house Pewabic Pottery for his wife, Mary Chase Perry. (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)Buy Photo

This massive 1903 Arts and Crafts mansion was designed by the great architect William Stratton, but it hasn’t been used as a home for decades.

Sitting at the front corner of Detroit’s West Village — and immediately next door to Indian Village — it has long been home to assorted offices.

Now the building has come up for sale, which raises the question: In this era blooming with appreciation of Detroit’s fine, old buildings, is anyone interested in turning this one back into a showplace home?

Buy Photo The grand living room, also called the ballroom, is two stories high with a beamed ceiling. (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)

“It’s really one of the great Arts and Crafts houses of this region,” said Bill Worden, Detroit’s retired director of Historic Designation.

“This was a historic moment when Detroit was really a leader in the Arts and Crafts movement.”

CLOSE This massive 1903 Arts and Crafts mansion was designed by the great architect William Stratton, but it hasn’t been used as a home for decades. Detroit Free Press

The house was designed by the firm Stratton & Baldwin for pharmaceutical pioneer Frederick Stearns. Stratton later married Pewabic Pottery co-founder Mary Chase Perry and designed her Pewabic building, which has similarities.

The Arts and Crafts movement stressed using fine materials and letting them show. Those original components remain, and they appear to be in good condition.

Buy Photo All three floors are connected by a heavy oak staircase that repeats the wood in the beams and the sidewalls. (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)

There’s a massive three-story staircase of oak. It rises out of a large foyer that has a stone fireplace with a heavy oak mantel. Carved into it is “Old wood to burn — old friends to greet.”

Tall, carved oak paneling surrounds the room with heavy, carved pocket doors that slide into the walls. The paneling, ceiling beams and pocket doors continue through the main floor.

Buy Photo The very large dining room has tall oak paneling with a design carved through it, elaborate ceiling trim and leaded glass windows. The unusual raised fireplace is art tile, possibly Pewabic, in a flat design, covered by copper doors. (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)

The very large dining room, currently used as a conference room, is a showstopper. It, too, is paneled with oak, in this case carved to show the wall behind. Its ceiling has an elaborate pattern of oak coffers and trim.

More Michigan House Envy:

Sherwood Forest home mirrors another place and time

Even the butler's pantry is fabulous in this Bloomfield Township home

The unusual fireplace wall here has no mantel. It’s tiled four-fifths of the way up with art tile that could be Pewabic, or perhaps the similar historic tile Moravian. The firebox is raised to table height and covered with copper doors.

Buy Photo Painted glass, stained glass and leaded glass run throughout the house. This rider on horseback is in the dining room. (Photo: Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press)

The house is rich with leaded and stained glass. Some have a personal detail — the No. 3 for the year the house was built and the letter "S" for Stearns.

Historian Worden said the house combines Arts and Crafts style with medieval massing. All the roof gables and the second-floor overhangs are examples of this.

“And yet you have double-hung windows with muntins (supporting strips between glass),” he said, “or a door hood that’s classical.

“This does all those things. It’s really just a splendid example.”

To be realistic, converting the building back to a house would be a heck of a project.

In its years as a commercial building, the home’s kitchen was removed to make more office space. And at 15,000 square feet, it’s thought to be the second largest in both West Village and Indian Village.

Realtor James Tumey said he can see it as a large private residence, but also as an office building, a bed and breakfast or a mixed-use space.

The house has three floors, 23 suites, nine bathrooms, five fireplaces, and two glass garden rooms with marble floors.

Although its address is on busy East Jefferson, the entry is on the small, tree-side Parker street. For a large house, it has very little yard, and that is paved for parking.

Its West Village location is booming with new walkable destinations like the stylish Craft Work restaurant and cafes: Red Hook, Sister Pie and La Boheme.

Whatever the use, Worden hopes the building goes to buyers who appreciate what they’ve got.

“It’s just spectacular,” he said. “It would be wonderful for somebody who really understands the style to go in there and really do it up.”

West Village Arts and Crafts mansion

Where: 8109 East Jefferson, Detroit

How much: $1,195,000

Bedrooms: Roughly 10, now being used as part of 23 office suites.

Baths: 9

Square feet: About 15,000

Key features: 1903 Frederick Stearns mansion, designed by William Stratton, is an outstanding example of Arts and Crafts with medieval style. Great A&C detailing, carved oak, leaded glass. Could be commercial or residential use.

Contact: James Tumey, Friedman Urban LLC, 586-419-6271.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IMcM4i