Here is one producer who has no desire to do any revivals, reboots or retreads. How refreshing!

John Wells, whose credits include the NBC dramas “ER” and “The West Wing,” recently said he would not bring back those enormously popular shows — even if the network and fans are knocking down his door.

“The interest in [more] ‘ER’ started virtually a year after we went off the air. NBC was asking us to put it back on the air,” Wells told Variety. “I have no interest in doing it again. We did that show and we did it very well. I was very proud of it. We had so many wonderful people come through the show over the years. But now other talented people have picked up the medical show banner and carried it bravely forward.”

They sure did. Even before “ER” began in 1994, there were already too many medical dramas, such as “St. Elsewhere” and “Chicago Hope.” While it was airing, we got “House,” “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Private Practice.” And since “ER” ended in 2009, the bleeding hasn’t stopped. On TV right now are “The Good Doctor,” “Chicago Med” and “The Resident.” That’s enough gauze and jaundice to last a lifetime.

So, unless George Clooney returns to the show as Dr. Ross alongside Amal Clooney as his human rights lawyer wife, I’ll pass.

Wells had similar feelings about “The West Wing,” his White House liberal fantasia on national themes, which aired from 1999 to 2005.

“ ‘The West Wing’ is the one people pester us about constantly,” the producer said. “I have continued to say no, we’re not going to do it.”

The trouble facing “The West Wing” isn’t so much a glut of political programs — HBO’s “Veep” and Netflix’s “House of Cards” are tonally nothing like it — but an unrelenting onslaught of real daily White House news. It pervades every waking moment of American life. This is hardly the moment for a fictionalization of C-SPAN.

When we celebrate the return of our favorite shows like they’re Caesar marching through Rome in triumph, even die-hard fans tend to forget that the latter seasons were usually big fat flops.

In Season 10 of “ER,” a main character was offed by a helicopter — years after losing his arm to . . . a helicopter. The show continued for a further five years.

After Aaron Sorkin left “The West Wing” in Season 4, the show went off the rails. In its final season, presidential candidates played by Alan Alda and Jimmy Smits had a wacky (but also pretty boring) live debate for no reason. Wells understands that it’s better to remember the glory days of these once-great dramas.

If only the producers of “Will & Grace,” “Roseanne,” “The X-Files” and “Murphy Brown” got the memo.