By StoryStudio

There has been a lot of talk in Washington, D.C. about making sweeping changes to Medicaid. Some state legislatures are already changing coverage requirements and reducing funding.

Despite the attention, many Americans aren’t aware of the impact these changes would have on their friends, families and communities. Medicaid, a joint federal- and state-administered program, provides free or low-cost health coverage to about 74 million Americans—more than any other health insurance program in the country.

And it’s not only low-income adults that have Medicaid coverage. Children enrolled in Medicaid and its companion Children’s Health Insurance Program comprise about half of total Medicaid and CHIP enrollment. Seniors represent about 11 percent of Medicaid enrollees. Disabled and institutionalized adults represent about 14 percent.

Lower-income families that don’t qualify for Medicaid, but can’t afford private insurance often have no other option but CHIP to get their kids covered. Many seniors live on very little and rely on Medicaid to supplement basic Medicare coverage. New and expectant moms and people in need of addiction treatment also rely on Medicaid.

“Many people don’t realize the large number and variety of people receiving services through Medicaid-funded programs,” says Rhonda Medows, MD, executive vice president and chief population health officer for Providence St. Joseph Health. “They don’t realize their family, friends, coworkers and sometimes they themselves are already receiving care and services funded and managed by Medicaid.”

“Medicaid has been amazing as a stopgap for us.”

Kate, a 43-year-old mother of two, never thought she would need Medicaid. But during a difficult time in her life, it provided critical care for her and her children.

Kate and her family returned to Portland, Oregon, from Paris, France, where health care is inexpensive and available to all. In 2016, her husband left. Self-employed, Kate didn’t have access to employer insurance and didn’t earn enough to support her family, much less afford private health insurance.

“The Oregon Health Plan (Oregon’s Medicaid program) has been amazing just as a stopgap for us,” Kate said. “It was really able to give me a feeling of security during a time when I wasn’t sure.”

Many people assume you have to be disabled, elderly or have minor children to enroll in Medicaid. But Medicaid covers low-income working adults and those in between jobs, as well.

“There is an absolute need for access to care during catastrophic illness.”

Stefanie served as her husband’s full-time caregiver for three years until he died from complications associated with Lou Gehrig’s disease (ALS). When she lost her husband, she also lost her health insurance. Jessica Duarte, who leads the community health insurance team at Providence Little Company of Mary in Torrance, California, helped Stefanie apply for Medi-Cal, California’s Medicaid program.

“Having experienced and witnessed such a catastrophic illness, I have a new perspective on the absolute need for access to qualified and professional medical care,” Stefanie said. “This is particularly important for those who don’t have the financial resources to accommodate potentially life-threatening situations.”

As Stefanie’s story indicates, it’s hard for individuals in crisis to know if they qualify for Medicaid, much less figure out how to apply. Belinda Wright, financial counselor at Providence Alaska Medical Center in Anchorage, Alaska, helps patients through the maze of Medicaid and other financial assistance paperwork.

“This role proves to be crucial on a daily basis,” Wright says. “Most of the patients we encounter have medical issues and have limited income and resources. Many feel overwhelmed and frustrated. With our assistance, they can take the time to finish applications that can result in financial help. Our patients often leave with a sense of accomplishment and a feeling that their concerns are being heard and dealt with.”

“I wouldn’t be functioning right now if it weren’t for Medicaid.”

Wright helped another patient, Drew, not once, but twice. When the Affordable Care Act went into effect, she helped him enroll in his first-ever insurance plan as an adult. “Signing up is what made me start taking care of myself,” the 58-year-old Drew said, still recovering from years of drug use and dependency.

Unfortunately, Drew lost medical coverage when a work-related injury forced him into early retirement. Wright helped him apply for Medicaid, get into a behavioral health program and find housing.

Medicaid allows Drew to not only make regular visits to a primary care doctor, but also receive treatment related to his addiction. “I wouldn’t be functioning right now if it weren’t for Medicaid,” he said.

did you know? Medicaid is the single largest payer for mental health services in the United States. The Center for Medicaid and CHIP Services identified substance use disorder services as a priority for the next several years.

Medicaid helps people from all walks of life

People of every age, race, ethnicity and background benefit from Medicaid. In addition to people like Kate, Stefanie and Drew, Medicaid helps parents facing large medical bills for sick infants, supports seniors in nursing homes, and allows the chronically ill to receive life-saving medication.

Low-income, low-resourced seniors can receive Medicare and Medicaid simultaneously. Wright says if a senior faced a $1,000 Medicare deductible for a hospital stay, for example, Medicaid would cover all or most of the balance.

Medicaid also covers long-term and home-based care in most cases. “Home-based care especially makes senior patients happier, because they can stay in their own home instead of moving into assisted living or a long-term care facility,” Wright says. “A lot of people don’t know that low-income seniors can qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare coverage.”

For millions of Americans, Medicaid serves as a safety net and a lifeline. Providence St. Joseph Health helps these individuals gain access to Medicaid and other coverage so they can receive the quality care they deserve no matter what challenges life throws their way.

Learn more about Medicaid and the many people who depend on it at psjhealth.org/facesofmedicaid. If Medicaid has helped you, join the many faces and share your story.