By StoryStudio

There is a Lemony Snicket quote that should be the mantra of all job seekers: “Do the scary thing first, and get scared later.”

After all, it’s troublesome to be out of work, but the thought of sitting down to build a resume can be downright paralyzing for some people. This is especially true once you understand the reality of what happens to your resume after you’ve applied for a job.

Here are some stats that might give you pause:

Add to these depressing statistics the fact that the U.S. is currently at full-employment, and the situation can seem dire to those who need a new job. So, what does a job seeker have to do to get ahead?

The key is to create the best application materials possible for every job advertisement you’re looking to answer. More specifically, you need a resume that will get you past the six-second mark and an ATS. You also need a resume that is completely free of errors, and that is impressive enough to get you into the interview chair. In short, you need a killer resume.

So, follow Lemony Snicket’s advice and do the scary thing first: create a flawless, eye-catching resume. Follow these five tips for creating a five-star resume, and watch your job search go from zero to hero.

1. Study up on current best practices for resume writing

Resume writing, like all writing, is an art. And just like in the art world, preferences change.

If you haven’t updated your resume in a while, step one in the process is to read up on how to write a resume. Learning which format – chronological, functional, or combination – will best highlight your skills and experience is key, as is learning how to organize your information in a way that is pleasing to hiring managers.

2. Learn to optimize your resume for ATSs

Since research suggest that 64% of companies today are using applicant tracking system (ATS) to do first-round screenings of resumes, a critical element of success in the job search is learning to write an ATS-friendly resume.

First, let’s pause to discuss what an ATS actually does. When you submit your resume for a job opening, it is often run through an ATS, which is software that is designed to scan your resume for specific keywords that have been input by the recruiter. If your resume contains the keywords a recruiter or hiring manager has input for the role, it ranks high on their list of candidates to interview. If your resume does not contain these keywords, it winds up on the bottom of the list. Since a single job opening can generate hundreds of applications, typically only those resumes that rank the highest are ever seen by a human being.

To increase your chances of making it past the initial ATS screening, it is critical that you carefully review the job posting you are responding to and customize your resume so that it contains the keywords and skills mentioned in the ad. This extra step typically only takes a few minutes, but it will help you leap past this initial screening hurdle.

3. Study – and use – resume templates

Remember that six seconds stat? What it should drive home is the importance of having your most compelling information highlighted and easy-to-locate in your resume so that a recruiter can access it in a snap.

Using well-designed resume templates as a starting point is an easy way to figure out how to arrange your skills and experience. Since many factors can impact how you lay out your resume (your industry and experience level, among them) perusing/using professionally-created resume templates – more specifically, LiveCareer’s resume templates – allows you to check out all the options and decide which layout will work best for you.

4. Use a professional resume builder

Let’s face it – creating a resume can be a stressful, time-consuming pain in the neck, especially if you don’t have confidence in your writing, grammar, and formatting abilities. LiveCareer’s free Resume Builder offers job seekers step-by-step guidance on how to build a resume that is appealing to both ATS software and human recruiters.

With pre-written bullet points, a spell-checker, and other features, using LiveCareer’s Resume Builder ensures that you produce a well-organized, attractive, error-free resume in a matter of minutes. After all, with 59% of recruiters and hiring managers rejecting resumes out of hand just for poor grammar or spelling errors, the devil is in the details.



&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span data-mce-type=”bookmark” style=”display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;” class=”mce_SELRES_start”&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;﻿&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;



Visit LiveCareer to check out additional job-seeker resources, including a multitude of cover letter writing tools, and guidance on how to answer all types of interview questions.