I’m running down the road in three-inch heels, maniacally dodging crowds of minion-like businessmen. A huge clock hovers above the road, letting me know that I am late again. I try to run faster, but my heel is wedged into the pavement. I’m completely stuck. As I wrestle with my immovable heel I realize that I have forgotten to get dressed.

I wake up feeling stressed and anxious. It’s only 7 a.m. and I feel like I have already stuffed up.

My work dreams have been dominating my nights for weeks and I’m over it. Maybe it’s time to pay closer attention?

An army of anxious dreamers

Between 50 and 80 percent of us dream about work and many of those surveyed admitted to waking up in a cold sweat, according to Forbes. Having experienced work anxiety dreams myself, it doesn’t surprise me at all.

My own reoccurring dream about being late for work even features in the top five most common work-related dreams, along with having sex with a co-worker, being unprepared for a test and being naked at work.

For me, the dreams were a wake-up call. I was so unhappy in my job that my negative feelings were seeping into my personal life, even when I was asleep. I looked for a new job and was fortunate enough to find something quickly, putting an end to my misery.

But do work anxiety dreams always mean it’s time to move on? I spoke to psychologist Jocelyn Brewer to find out more.

How to make them stop

Brewer’s advice to people experiencing work-anxiety dreams is to attempt to “de-clutter” your work worries. You can do this through journaling or sitting down to chat with a trusted friend.

This process will help you to identify any issues that you can tackle head-on.

“See if there are any real actions you can take to address [your worries]. Could you talk to your boss or access employee support services?” Brewer suggests.

Brewer also notes that there is a link between “threat rehearsal theory” and REM sleep.

“This means that your anxious dreams are a safer way of practicing dealing with a situation than real life, so your dreams throw a bunch of weird (and sometimes very normal) scenarios at you that you then deal with in REM sleep.

“You might even need to ‘listen’ to the content of the dream and take actions to ensure the dream (or perhaps nightmare) doesn’t become a reality. This might be, set your alarm a bit earlier, lay out your clothes the night before, back up your work computer or technical aspects.”

So should I quit my job?

Are work anxiety dreams a sign that it is time to brush off your CV and start looking for a new job? Not necessarily, says Brewer.

“Certainly dreams are a way our brains signal to us a range of ideas — sometimes these are worth listening to and might provide insights or new ideas for solving problems, but in many cases, they’re simply just a collection of images scrambled together as your brain regenerates and re-balances.”

Another thing to remember, according to Brewer, is that we only tend to remember dreams when REM sleep (the sleep stage in which most dreams occur) is disrupted (i.e.: we wake up mid-dream). You can stop this from happening by using a sleep cycle app to wake you up when you’ve finished dreaming.

Take control

Work anxiety dreams can be awful and leave you feeling as if you’ve been at work all night. Brewer notes that although you can’t control your dreams you can control what happens in the hours between work and sleep. So if you are unsure what to do about work anxiety dreams your best bet is to start by switching off more.

“Have a clear routine which helps you disconnect from the mental and physical aspects of work,” says Brewer.

“That might include getting out of your work clothes when you get home, not working on public transport on the way home or when you get home and exercising so that your body is more tired and the endorphins released during exercise have the opportunity to clear out the mental cobwebs.”