By StoryStudio

There’s nothing in the world quite like the warm, sun-drenched days and cool, star-strewn evenings of summer in Sonoma County, birthplace of California wine. And for Bay Area dwellers, a brief and scenic road trip (two hours or less) is all it takes to get there, meaning day trips or weekend getaways are easy-peasy. So as summer approaches, why not center your next visit around one of the most enchanting evenings Sonoma has to offer: the Sonoma-Cutrer Winery’s annual Winemaker Dinner, where award-winning glasses of vino pair perfectly with an early summer feast beneath the stars. This year’s event happens Saturday, June 23. Read on for a taste of what to expect.

1. A truly enchanting setting. It’s hard to imagine a more beautiful place to indulge than Sonoma-Cutrer Winery, a 450-acre estate of rolling green hills dotted with vineyards that sits nestled in the heart of stunning Sonoma County. Clusters of grapes rustle in the cool breeze coming off the Pacific coast. After the sun melts over the vast green expanse of the croquet courts, night falls and the sky lights up with stars. This year’s dinner takes place on the Croquet Knoll, where long communal tables set for a feast add to the evening’s convivial, communal vibe.

2. A menu to remember. The mark of a truly great winery is a culinary program strong enough to match the wines on offer. At Sonoma-Cutrer Winery, the kitchen is led by chef Kevin Markey, a Sonoma County native with hospitality in his blood — his father was a chef and his mother was an event planner. After a stint in the Navy, training at the world-renowned Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, New York, and years of experience in kitchens across the country, Markey returned to his roots to combine his twin passions of wine and food. As winery chef for Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, he is known for his ability to turn hyperlocal, organic, and seasonal ingredients into perfect culinary pairings for wines made on the estate. Dining at his table is an experience you won’t soon forget.

Begin your evening with a sweet and savory salad of grilled watermelon, heirloom tomatoes, creamy goat cheese and house-aged balsamico. Next comes smoked trout with otto filé polenta and wild mushroom ragu, followed by an entree of pheasant in Armagnac brandy paired with a bounty of locally grown produce that includes pommes Dauphinois, spiced heirloom carrots and rainbow chard. Finish your evening with a fresh berry trifle with zesty lemon curd and mint cream. Mmmm.

3. Wine pairings straight from the source. Being at one of Sonoma County’s greatest wineries means you’ll drink plenty of vino—and drink it well. Sonoma-Cutrer Winery’s fantastic array of grapes grown on six different vineyards produces a cornucopia of award-winning wines. Current bottles range from the aromatic Sauvignon Blanc with notes of guava, lychee, ginger, white peach and herbaceous freshly cut grass to the elegant artisan Rosé, loosely based on the rosés of Provence and made from 100 percent Pinot Noir grapes grown in the Russian River Valley. Or delve into the library with one of Sonoma-Cutrer’s fantastic vintage blends, brought up from the cellar just for this special evening. Each of the meal’s four courses will be expertly paired with a glass selected to complement each tasting note. All you have to do is sit back, sip and enjoy.

4. A game of croquet, should you choose to play! There’s nothing more relaxing than an evening spent on the grassy green croquet courts, sipping bubbly and nibbling on charcuteries. As the setting sun paints the sky creamy shades of peach and gold, enjoy a leisurely game of croquet among friends during the reception hour leading up to dinner.

Ready to experience the best Sonoma County has to offer? Buy your ticket now.

Please Enjoy Our Wines Responsibly.

©2018 Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Windsor, CA. All rights reserved.