The poster for the new documentary "White Boy." (Photo: "White Boy.")

"White Boy," the gripping, complicated story of what happened to Richard Wershe Jr., debuted Tuesday on iTunes and goes wide on other digital platforms June 5.

The documentary's arrival kicks off what could be called the summer of White Boy Rick, the teenage FBI informant who became the longest-serving non-violent juvenile offender in Michigan.

"White Boy" is directed by filmmaker Shawn Rech, who premiered the documentary at the 2017 Freep Film Festival, and is bringing it back to metro Detroit this weekend for three theatrical screenings.

Weaving new interviews with archival footage, Rech made the case that White Boy Rick – a nickname popularized in media coverage of Detroit's 1980s drug gangs – was a pawn in a larger story of law enforcement betrayal and police corruption.

Wershe was paroled last year after serving nearly three decades behind bars. He is now incarcerated in Florida for a conviction involving being part of a stolen car ring while in prison. He is set to be released in 2021.

Poster for 'White Boy Rick' (Photo: 'White Boy Rick')

Rech's documentary is hitting the web not long after the arrival of the first poster for "White Boy Rick," the feature film starring Matthew McConaughey as Wershe's father that traces their complex father-son relationship. It opens in theaters on Sept. 21.

Also on the horizon? The new book "Prisoner of War: The Story of White Boy Rick and the War on Drugs," which comes out June 25. It's written by former Detroit TV reporter Vince Wade, who covered Wershe extensively in the 1980s.

Wade looks at Wershe's tale in the context of the American justice system's flawed war on drugs and its devastating impact on a generation of young black men.

The "White Boy" documentary will feature about 10 minutes of new footage added since the Freep Film Festival premiere, including excerpts from an interview with award-winning former Free Press reporter Joe Swickard, who participated in a panel discussion at the festival.

Steve Byrne, executive director of Freep Film Festival, left, speaks with Shawn Rech, right, the director of the documentary "White Boy" before its premiere at the Detroit Film Theatre at the Detroit Institute of Arts on Friday, March 31, 2017. (Photo: John Froelich, Special to the Free Press)

This Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Freep Film Festival will host showings of "White Boy" at the Emagine Royal Oak as part of its monthly screening series.

Rech will participate in a Friday post-screening panel hosted by Free Press reporter Elisha Anderson.

Contact Detroit Free Press pop culture critic Julie Hinds: 313-222-6427 or jhinds@freepress.com.

'White Boy'

Part of the Freep Film Festival monthly screening series

7 p.m. Fri., 3 p.m. Sat. and Sun.

Emagine Royal Oak

$10 advance, $12 day of

Tickets at www.emagine-entertainment.com/locations/royal-oak/

Exclusive debut on iTunes

Available now

$12.99

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2IUAkUY