Where Long Island splits in two at the Peconic River — technically at the township of Riverhead — there’s both a physical and a psychological divide. The South Fork is home to the tony Hamptons, where dressing for dinner is an art form; the North Fork, meanwhile, has for generations remained the stomping ground of farmers, fishermen and, in the past 30 years, winemakers.

Now, acclaimed chefs and food influencers are quietly planting flags on these fertile grounds, from Southold to Orient Point.

“Top Chef” judge Tom Colicchio — who originally oversaw the kitchen of Gramercy Tavern and now leads his own Craft restaurant empire, as well as the menu at Temple Court and the new Alley Cat in the Beekman Hotel — was an early arrival, buying a circa-1850 home in Mattituck 17 years ago.

“My wife spent summers in Martha’s Vineyard, and I spent summers at the Jersey Shore, so we split the difference,” he tells Alexa. In the nearly two decades since they set down roots out east, the area has changed dramatically — but not intrinsically.

“There are a lot of people here who had a career in banking or management consulting and wanted to bail out of the city,” Colicchio explains, and those folks are now putting their energy toward North Fork food projects. “It used to be just cauliflower and broccoli and potatoes. Now Holly Browder of Browder’s Birds has the best chickens I’ve ever eaten, Sang Lee is doing organic farming, there are at least three different oyster growers, people are planting hops for the local brewers.”

He goes to his North Fork house every weekend he can during the year and decamps there full time starting in June. He cooks for friends and neighbors and lets his kids run as wild as Browder’s chickens. “It’s the kind of pace and community we thought was long gone,” he says.

Colicchio might run into fellow North Forkers like Bon Appétit editor Adam Rapoport or President Obama’s former chef, Sam Kass, but mostly he doesn’t leave his garden except to buy cheese at the Village Cheese Shop or hit up his former colleague Claudia Fleming’s food truck, which roams the region.

“Once I’m out in Mattituck for the summer, I’m in shorts and T-shirts and flipflops,” he admits.

Most of us know each other already, so that makes it nice. - Andrew Carmellini

Fleming followed her boss (she won the James Beard Award for outstanding pastry chef in 2000, while working at Gramercy Tavern) out east and never left. She and her late husband bought a home in Southold in 2004 and soon after opened the four-guestroom North Fork Table & Inn, undeniably the social hub of the area.

“When we first came, there were really no restaurants catering to the inweries,” Fleming says. “So it seemed like a perfect pairing.” In the past several years, only a few other restaurants have opened, but she can source food from new local cattle ranches, pig farms and goats making milk for cheese.

“It’s so exciting. From 8 Hands Farm and Deep Roots Farm, we get whole animals. McCall, one of the better wineries, started raising 100-percent grass-fed beef. On Friday nights, we take our food truck to McCall winery and serve hamburgers from their beef. It’s super fun and very intimate. You meet all the other people who have slowed down and recognize the benefits of this prospering community.”

Indeed, Fleming is being honored by Dan’s Chefs of the North Fork on July 7 for her commitment to the region. The dinner is being hosted at the Halyard, one of the few other sit-down restaurants to open in the North Fork, set inside the waterfront Sound View hotel in Greenport.

The Halyard launched last fall, overseen by chef Galen Zamarra, also a James Beard Award winner and owner of Mas (Farmhouse) in the West Village. He’s been doing a house-share in Southold since 2003.

“The restaurant scene then was just bad. It wasn’t even local food — it was frozen!” he recalls.

But he could ride his bike from vineyard to vineyard and farm to farm. He’s still a fan of the honor-system farm stands and the Fifth Street Beach, and will occasionally go out to dinner with his wife and two kids at places like 1943 Pizza Bar for woodfired pies or Caci for Italian. He’s excited about Peconic Escargot farm’s PawPaw and chef Frank DeCarlo’s pop-ups. “It is a very quiet, leisurely life,” he says.

Lots of Zamarra’s food-world friends have also fallen in love with that laid-back lifestyle. “Most of us know each other already, so that makes it nice,” says chef Andrew Carmellini, owner of Manhattan’s the Dutch and Locanda Verde — and a Cutchogue home he bought three years ago. “I’m buying lambs that are pastured down the street and chickens for my personal use and having people over for dinner.”

He just partnered with local purveyor Farm Beyond to grow all the vegetables for two of his city restaurants, on just two acres. “I have been living in the city most of my life, so I’m less the patient farmer than I am the feverish eater. We’re harvesting already,” he says. Look for North Fork-fresh tomatoes, peppers and eggplant at Leuca and Little Park in early June.

Just don’t expect the area to become the “next Brooklyn,” as so many publications proclaim. “It’s a different kind of vibe,” notes Carmellini. “We are generally socializing at the house as opposed to going out. We go to the beach, where we have a fire pit and kayaks, and we do a lot of bike riding.”

One thing you’ll never see: a future Carmellini restaurant near the North Fork Jitney stop.

“Every year a piece of property comes up, and someone asks if I’ll open something, but I’m all business in town,” says the chef. “So when I’m out here, I don’t want to worry about making brunch.”