When Andrea Myles woke up on this particular morning, she automatically reached for her phone, as she usually did — her heart sank. But, she wasn’t particularly surprised.

It was, yet another, unsolicited message that had slid into her LinkedIn inbox, from a strange man who, somehow, felt entitled to send it. “I just thought, ‘Oh my God, f–k this,'” Myles tells whimn.com.au, emphatically, recalling the message that “crossed the line.”

“It wasn’t completely explicit but they never are. They’re always just a little bit in that grey area,” she says. “I was so irritated by it and it was happening a lot – I had probably got a few that month – and I just thought, ‘Bugger this, I’m just going to change my profile to male.'”

So, she did, using the first stock image that came up after searching for “CEO.” Goodbye, Andrea Myles – the successful, blonde, 30-something female CEO – and hello Andrew Myles – the white, middle-aged male CEO.

The worst part though was that this was also the moment her life got easier. Specifically, the sexual harassment dropped from 100 to zero. “Not only did I not get any sexual harassment that month, of course, but I noticed that a lot of my own network on LinkedIn were really just cheering me on. It’s really funny to throw your own profile around in such a cavalier way but also just to flip this on its head and say imagine if it was just so simple that to not be sexually harassed you could just change your gender,” Myles says.

Myles, a Rare Birds ambassador, is now calling on LinkedIn to do more to protect women online. “If we think about LinkedIn as a proxy for an online workplace – if somebody bails you up and says, ‘That dress looks really good on you,’ you’ve got Human Resources to go and have a chat to but on LinkedIn you don’t. I have reported every single person who has sent me something dodgy on LinkedIn and nothing ever happens.

“I don’t think LinkedIn is prioritizing the experience of women on their platform because it would be very simple if somebody’s profile has been reported multiple times to say, ‘You will get strikes against your profile and then you will be removed.’ As far as I can tell, that really doesn’t seem to be happening.”

Myles says she is still receiving these sorts of messages through the platform regularly – around two a month – but now, instead of resorting to such extreme length, she’s employed a new strategy. “I carry it all very, very lightly when it happens – I don’t go into some deep existential analysis of it these days but my theory is that bad behavior thrives in the dark. So I screenshot it and I put it straight on my LinkedIn. I find that very empowering, actually. I do it automatically. If I think, should I say something here? The answer is always yes.”

“I’ve probably got 15, 20 years of professional experience now and that crap adds up.”

Being a female CEO, a rare breed in itself, Myles is familiar with putting up with crap, though. She explains: “There are the opportunities you know you miss out on and then there are the opportunities that just never quite come your way – so you can’t quite quantify those ones. Being a CEO, you’re often fumbling along in the dark along a wall and trying to find a door to go into. My perspective is that for female CEOs, we often get more wall than door and for male CEOs, there are just often more doors open.”

“Statistically, we know 95 percent of startup capital goes to male-led startups and that’s not because those female startups are underperforming per se but the capital is just not going to female startups. So often the kinds of questions we get asked are, how are we going to overcome all of our shortfalls? Whereas questions men tend to get are, how are you going to capitalize the market? So it’s these sorts of cognitive biases — conscious and unconscious — these sorts of things do add up.”

As for what’s next, Myles says she has another social experiment in mind – namely, a role reversal of sorts, where men pretend to be women on LinkedIn.

“The thing I’m holding out for is a bunch of blokes to just walk a mile on the internet as a woman,” she says. “They don’t have to be a high-profile male CEO and change their own but if they create one as an empathy experiment, just to see what might happen. I think the fragility of our online profiles presents a great opportunity to walk a mile in another’s shoes to see what might it be like if their voice didn’t carry the authority it does.”

A LinkedIn spokesman told whimn.com.au it’s customer support team had no record of any complaints or messages received from Myles.

However, he said the company took such matters seriously and encouraged members to report any behavior they considered to be inappropriate through the Help Center.

“Our members value using LinkedIn because they want to build their career and be better at what they do,” the spokesman added.

“The online world has no shortage of places for people looking for dates; it’s neither common nor effective, to do that on LinkedIn. And if someone insists on trying, we have tools in place to block those people – and where necessary, remove them from the site altogether.”

Andrea Myles is one of Rare Birds’ inspiring female speakers bringing a diversity of perspectives to the media and professional public forums.