By StoryStudio

﻿

A local company in the San Francisco Bay Area is transforming the meaning of taking out the trash for large, multi-family residences, businesses and commercial properties. Whether Starbucks or 24 Hour Fitness or Nation’s Hamburgers, companies all over the San Francisco Bay Area are taking advantage of Bay Area Bin Support’s first of its kind push/pull service..

The value of that service has quickly attracted customers: Bay Area Bin Support opened in June 2015 and now boasts more than 200 clients in three counties. Six days a week, including holidays, the company’s employees make hundreds of stops, averaging 300 containers pushed and pulled per day.

Bay Area Bin Support, locally owned, specializes in bringing dumpsters and large trash cans to the curb each morning, waiting for the contents to be emptied by the garbage company and then returning the bins to their storage location. A light cleanup in the garbage enclosure is included with the service as well as a redistribution of trash among containers to keep waste from overflowing. Sounds easy, right? Not so!

Push pull service has recently emerged as an unpleasant hot button for property managers and owners of multifamily properties especially in cities such as Oakland, California. As garbage contracts have come up for renewal, the message to cities is now clear: Garbage companies want to be paid for the push/pull portion of garbage pick-up.

In some cities, push pull service may have a different name, referred to as distance fees, backyard fees, elevation fees or hard-to-reach fees Whatever the fee is called, the bottom line is clear–if a garbage company driver gets out of the truck and physically pushes a bin to the curb, the customer will be charged—and the charges are astronomical.

This year, the fee for a multifamily property in Oakland to move a dumpster bin more than 100 feet to the curb is $1,031.96 per bin per month! Property managers who manage buildings with multiple bins are often left at a loss as they try to figure out whether to pay the outrageous fees or push the bins themselves. Pushing a fully loaded dumpster bin 100 feet is no easy task. That’s where Bay Area Bin Support comes in.

For that same 100-foot-plus dumpster bin push,, Bay Area Bin Support charges clients 75% less per month. That’s a significant difference that leads to savings in the thousands of dollars per year for businesses, property managers and HOA boards. The company also offers economies of scale. The more bins that you need moved, the less you will pay per bin. The company pushes bins of all sizes – from the largest, 4-cubic yards and wheeled to the smaller 3-, 2- and 1-cubic yard – all at the same price regardless of the distance from the curb. Bay Area Bin Support also services regular gallon size carts for garbage, recycle and compost/organic materials. Since garbage fees can vary so drastically from city to city, the company will also do a rate match if its standard fees are higher than what a property is currently paying.

































Image 1 of / 9 Caption Close Image 2 of 9 Image 3 of 9 Image 4 of 9 Image 5 of 9 Image 6 of 9 Image 7 of 9 Image 8 of 9 Image 9 of 9 Why Property Managers Love Bay Area Bin Support 1 / 9 Back to Gallery

Saving its customers money is primary, but Bay Area Bin Support’s founders do more than that. “Garbage comes with so many headaches and issues on a weekly basis for property managers that customer service is at the top of our priorities,” says co-founder and owner Nancy Fiame. “Our goal is to act like garbage ninjas. We come in while it’s still dark outside, before your tenants wake up, to take out the garbage bins, clean up the area and have them pushed back into place before you even realize we were here. If there are any issues, we alert you right away.”

Those issues may be anything from overflowing containers to contamination in the recycle and compost bins, broken bin wheels or bins with rotted holes that allow waste to spill and attract rodents. All of these problems need to be brought to the immediate attention of property managers. For example, if a property consistently has overflowing bins, Bay Area Bin Support will suggest that managers add additional containers to avoid penalties on their monthly garbage bill. If a bin is only 50% full on a consistent basis the company might also suggest that they scale back the size of their containers to help them save even more money while staying in compliance of city ordinances.

There are city ordinances, Fiame explains, that require multi-family properties to have a certain number of gallons available per unit for waste. But space in the garbage room may make that an issue, she said. “We help our clients figure out what size bin or combination of bins would work best given the space available and while still meeting city codes. We are an independent company focusing solely on supporting and partnering with properties as they deal with their garbage needs.”

Bay Area Bin Support also works to make all parts of the process as invisible as it can. It is company policy never to pull bins to the curb the night before pick-up because that can lead to extra dumping or scavenging. All bins are pulled to the curb the same morning of service and pushed back shortly thereafter. The company tracks and optimizes the routes on a weekly basis so client bins are out on the curb for the least amount of time possible.

While Bay Area Bin Support specializes in push/pull service, keeping bin storage areas clean, communication issues and optimizing a property’s waste program, the bottom line is the company’s ability to save your property or business lots of money. And at the end of the day, the one thing that should never go in the garbage, recycle or compost bin is money.

For a free estimate, contact Bay Area Bin Support at 1-888-920-2467.

Read more reviews of Bay Area Bin Support on Yelp