When Congress was debating federal tax reform last year, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo took umbrage at one major component under consideration. “New York will be destroyed,” he warned, by limits on the deductibility of state and local tax (SALT) payments.

His complaint cut no ice with federal lawmakers, who put a ceiling of $10,000 on the annual amount that can be deducted. That restriction will have a modest effect in low-tax states but a large one in New York, where 40 percent of filers exceeded that amount in 2015. The effect is also painful in such high-tax states as Connecticut, New Jersey, California and, ahem, Illinois.

That effect, we should mention, is a feature, not a bug. It forces taxpayers in these places to bear the full burden of the decisions made by their lawmakers – rather than force taxpayers in more frugal places to effectively subsidize affluent citizens of the high-tax states. A near-doubling of the standard deduction, coupled with lower federal tax rates, makes the new limit irrelevant for most middle-income households nationwide.

Limiting the SALT deduction puts pressure on state and local officials to reduce the tax burden they’ve imposed. Small wonder that many of them don’t like it. When the limitation proposal gained traction in November, we wrote that politicians in high-tax states used the SALT deduction to excuse the high taxes they impose: Sure, we’re gouging you, but you can write off our taxes on your federal tax return. Illinois pols wouldn't need to fight so hard to retain the deduction if property taxes — and last year’s 32-percent rise in the personal income tax rate — weren't so high in the first place. So credit GOP tax reform for forcing this issue: Why are Illinois taxes so high? How about addressing that problem instead of reaching for the deduction Band-Aid?

But Cuomo is not easily discouraged. New York responded with an ingenious change: allowing taxpayers to make payments to nonprofit groups controlled by local governments and deduct them as charitable contributions.

The governor took great pride in this workaround. “We passed the first-in-the-country tax reform where we changed our tax code to actually avoid the penalty of the federal government,” he boasted. Lawmakers in other heavy-taxing states have considered the same ploy.

But on May 23, the IRS poured cold water on the idea. “Despite these state efforts to circumvent the new statutory limit on state and local tax deductions,” the agency said, “taxpayers should be mindful that federal law controls the proper characterization of payments for federal income tax purposes.”

The IRS notice brings us to a question often attributed to Abraham Lincoln: “How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg? Four. Calling the tail a leg doesn’t make it a leg.” Similarly, converting property tax payments to “charitable contributions” doesn’t change their true nature. As Jared Walczak, an analyst at the Tax Foundation, said, “The IRS is neither fooled by nor particularly flummoxed by re-characterization of federal tax liability.”

But if you think that’s the end of that, think again. The day after the IRS put out the word, the Illinois Senate voted 51-1 to approve a bill sponsored by Julie Morrison, D-Deerfield, adopting the same bogus tactic. It was left to Jim Oberweis, R-Sugar Grove, the lone senator voting “no,” to state the obvious: “There is no way the federal government is going to allow states to pull a fast one like that, to find a tricky way around the deduction limits.”

What lawmakers in Illinois – and New York, and other states that feel put upon – should be doing instead is finding ways to trim spending and taxes so their constituents won’t be so affected by the change.

It’s been nice forcing people in lower-tax states to help pull our overloaded wagon. But that ride is over.

Join the discussion on Twitter @Trib_Ed_Board and on Facebook.

Submit a letter to the editor here or email letters@chicagotribune.com.