Get to know Broncos rookie wide receiver DaeSean Hamilton and you’ll discover two things in which the 23-year old with the wild flat-top dreads takes immense pride.

Designer eyewear and footwork.

“A lot of people think these are fake, but I actually need these,” Hamilton told reporters earlier this month behind prescription Ray Bans with a slick black frame. “Yeah, I like really fancy glasses and big glasses.”

But let’s forget the specs for a moment to focus on the feet, because after all, that’s why Hamilton is in Denver. He has an undeniable confidence he can break into a deep receiving corps that is equal parts savvy veterans (Demaryius Thomas and Emmanuel Sanders) and potentially dynamic newcomers (Hamilton and Courtland Sutton).

Hamilton, 6-foot-1, 203 pounds, is a former Penn State pass catcher who surveyed the entire rookie wide receiver class pre-draft, and while typically more reserved, he made this bold assertion on NFL Network.

“I’m the best route runner in this class,” he said.

Hamilton’s gaudy college stats help back up that bravado. He set a program record for catches (214) at Penn State and fell less than 200 yards shy of the all-time receiving yardage mark (2,842). Add in Hamilton’s 4.52-second 40-yard dash, and the Broncos’ decision to select him with the No. 113 overall pick (fourth round) of the NFL Draft becomes clear.

The foundation for Hamilton’s football rise began as a kid — on the soccer field.

“The quick feet thing came naturally to me and I started doing ladder drills as I got older into middle school,” Hamilton said. “Early in my college career, I thought releases (from the line of scrimmage) were a strength of mine because of my footwork compared to other guys. I used that to my advantage and made that a part of my game.”

Hamilton played inside and outside his first two seasons at Penn State before switching exclusively to the slot as a junior and senior. He’s open to any role with the Broncos. “I’m not just necessarily going to just classify myself in one position,” he said.

But earning the respect of All-Pro teammates requires time. One example: After day three of OTAs, Broncos cornerback Chris Harris was asked for his early impressions of Hamilton. “What number?” Harris asked. “No. 17,” a team spokesman replied. “I haven’t gone against him, so I don’t know,” Harris said. “I go against DT and Emmanuel. That’s all.”

Hamilton displayed both sides of the rookie spectrum during the Broncos’ Tuesday team period. He dropped a pass on a crossing route one play, slapping his hands in disgust when the football hit the grass, and just a couple snaps later he caught a deep post pass for a touchdown through heavy traffic. Hamilton was among the final players to exit the field for the locker room Tuesday after taking extra time catching passes.

“I’m not changing my identity and the way I play the game,” Hamilton said. “I’m working to speed things up a little more and become an all-around pro football player, soaking everything in and implementing that when I get on to the field. … The (veterans) have really helped us out teaching us technique and the tricks of the trade. But we (rookies) take it upon ourselves to learn fast and not be a step behind.”

For Hamilton, it all begins with his feet.

“DaeSean is a guy that has a veteran’s presence as a route runner,” Broncos coach Vance Joseph said. “He gets it and has a knack for it. He’s definitely ahead of his time.”

When Hamilton’s helmet comes off, the glasses come on, and he usually alternates between three pairs of designer frames: Versace, Gucci and Ray Ban. Hamilton is a long ways off from matching the flash of noted glasses aficionado and sackmaster Von Miller. But Hamilton’s newfound NFL income means the collection can grow. And, a long career making defensive backs look silly would ensure Hamilton’s style stay current.

He plans on it.

“It adds a little taste of flavor to my game,” he said.