From left, Dave Trott, Fred Upton and Mike Bishop (Photo: DFP and AP photos)

Two Republican congressmen from Michigan -- one a lame duck with nothing to lose, the other a 16-term incumbent eager to buttress his standing with independent voters -- are defying House Republican leaders in a bid to bring a bill that would protect young immigrants known as "dreamers" from deportation to the House floor before November's mid-term elections .

In joining 19 other House Republicans in the House, Rep. David Trott (R-Birmingham) and Rep. Fred Upton (R-St.Joseph) brought the insurgents within five votes of the 218 they need to force a vote on four immigration bills, including one that would provide permanent legal status for more than a million undocumented immigrants brought to the United States when they were children.

Many of those immigrants are now young adults who have never known any home but the United States. The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program initiated by the Obama administration in 2012 has so far shielded them from deportation, but their future has been clouded since President Trump canceled the program last September.

The youngest hostages

Trump has repeatedly asserted that he sympathizes with the dreamers' plight and says he pulled the plug on DACA only because his predecessor acted without congressional authority. But he has opposed an up-or-down vote on restoring protection for dreamers, vowing as recently as Thursday not to sign such legislation unless it's accompanied by funding for the wall he has pledged to build on the Mexican border.

Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan and his heir apparent, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, have abetted Trump's hostage scheme, blocking a floor vote on an unadorned DACA rescue bill everyone concedes would sail through both houses with a combination of Democratic and moderate Republican votes.

But Ryan and McCarthy have failed to build a consensus behind less-generous alternatives favored by conservative Republicans in the House. And now a coalition of Democrats and Republican moderates, many of them facing difficult re-election contests this fall, is using a rarely invoked procedure to strong-arm the GOP leaders resisting a DACA bill.

The discharge petition signed by 21 Republicans and all but a handful of Democrats would actually compel the House to take up four different immigration measures. But the bill that would guarantee law-abiding dreamers permanent residency and a path to citizenship is has the most bi-partisan support in the House and Senate, reflecting its popularity among voters across the political spectrum. Numerous polls suggest that between 70 and 80% of Americans support restoration of the DACA program.

The support of Republicans like Trott and Upton has left the seven remaining members of Michigan's Republican delegation with a politically unsavory choice: They can either defy their unpopular president and lame-duck speaker, or continue to withhold support for a wildly popular bill that would deliver blameless young immigrants from their fear of sudden detention and deportation.

Bishop feels the heat

Perhaps no GOP congressman is under more pressure than Michigan's Mike Bishop (R-Rochester), whose Democratic opponent, former Defense department official Elissa Slotkin, has raised more money than Bishop in the last three quarters. Bishop's 8th District seat has been considered a lock for Republicans since the 2011 reapportionment, but the Democratic Party now considers it one of the two (Trott's 11th is the second) Michigan seats most likely to flip to their party's control in November.

I placed calls and emails to all seven Michigan Republicans who haven't signed the pro-DACA discharge petition. One, Rep Paul Mitchell, said he opposes the discharge initiative.

Bishop was among six others who declined to say whether they would support Trott and Upton in their efforts to bring a DACA bill to the House floor. That's consistent with his recent preference for avoiding public platforms where he might be asked uncomfortable questions, including next week's annual Mackinac Policy Conference. Bishop has told staffers he intends to skip the conference, a traditional showcase for lawmakers seeking re-election and financial support.

But Bishop and his colleagues in Michigan's Republican congressional delegation won't be able to maintain the illusion of neutrality for long. They'll either give young, law-abiding immigrants a new lease on life by joining Trott and Upton in the campaign to force a vote on DACA, or condemn dreamers with their continued silence.

Contact Brian Dickerson at bdickerson@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2sgSYv9