0:49 Woman bites down on ex-boyfriend's tongue and refuses to let go Shocking footage from China shows a woman biting down on a man's tongue, refusing to let go until police use what appears to be pepper spray on her. According to witnesses, the man had attempted to break up with her, sparking the bloody incident.

1:03 Hero cop keeps his cool to save choking baby Georgia police officer Nick St. Onge is being hailed as a hero for rescuing a 2-month-old infant who appeared to be choking. He had responded to a frantic 911 call from the baby's grandmother, who reported that the baby was turning blue.

0:41 Scaffolding accident causes man to drop nearly 30 feet A scaffolding collapse on a boat in the Philippines resulted in the death of one worker. Three others were left dangling, but they each escaped with minor injuries.

1:14 Female wrestlers knock the crap out of each other The feminist professional wrestling league, EVE, is hitting Europe like a piledriver. In May 2017, 1,000 fans showed up to York Hall in Bethnal Green, England, to watch the women in action.

1:19 Mom scuffles with cops after dragging kids onto ledge Police in Delray Beach, Florida, released bodycam footage of officers rescuing two small children from a dangerous ledge. They had been dragged onto the wet surface by a woman who appeared to be hallucinating at the time.

0:42 Determined dimwit takes an hour to steal safe A bumbling burglar was caught on camera struggling to steal a safe from a Burger Monger in St. Petersburg, Florida. Michael Murphy, 25, has been arrested and charged with felony burglary.

1:47 Bodycam footage proves woman falsely accused trooper of sexual assault The Texas Department of Public Safety has released the bodycam footage of Sherita Dixon-Cole being pulled over for suspicion of drunk driving. The incident had sparked outrage across social media outlets when Cole accused the trooper of sexually assaulting her. The footage, however, contradicts her claims.

0:34 Bulls viciously attack participants at festival The first day of the “Toro Chutay” bullfighting festival in Peru reportedly ended with 10 people injured on the horns of bulls. The majority of incidents occurred during the "Jala Toro" part of the festival, during which the audience taunts the animals.

1:38 Top 5 jobs that attract psychopaths Psychopaths are drawn to careers that reward their unflinching personalities. According to Kevin Dutton, the author of “The Wisdom of Psychopaths,” jobs like surgeon or CEO are full of non-murderous, functional psychopaths.