Ald. Cavalier Johnson and Capt. Andra Williams speak to reporters Monday at the District 4 station about an attempted carjacking that resulted in a fatal shooting. (Photo: Ashley Luthern / Milwaukee Journal Sentinel)

Police have released the identity of a 21-year-old would-be carjacker who was shot and killed by his intended victim early Monday.

Police identified the carjacker Tuesday morning as Carlos D. Martin, a convicted felon. Martin was armed with a gun and trying to carjack a 24-year-old man who was heading into work shortly before 6 a.m. Monday, Milwaukee Police Capt. Andra Williams said.

The 24-year-old had a valid concealed carry license and fatally shot Martin, said Ald. Cavalier Johnson, who called a news conference late Monday about the shooting.

The incident occurred outside a business in the 8800 block of W. Fond du Lac Ave. and was the first reported fatal shooting in Johnson's northwest side district this year.

The shooter, who lives outside the city, stayed at the scene, gave a voluntary statement and is cooperating with the investigation, Williams said.

Police believe a second car may have been involved with the attempted carjacking and are searching for a green Chrysler Pacifica, Williams said.

According to circuit court records, Martin was convicted in 2015 of felony battery and in 2016 of burglary.

Once the investigation is complete, officers will refer the case to the Milwaukee County District Attorney's Office so prosecutors can determine whether it was justified self-defense.

“Before the summer starts, this should be a warning," Williams said. "This should be a wake-up call to everyone in the community that this is not a game."

Johnson urged residents to talk to their loved ones, particularly young men, about their choices.

“That young man didn’t have to die today, he didn’t have to lose his life, but he made a bad decision and he did," Johnson said. “He didn’t have to harm someone else, either."

The topic of concealed carry has drawn heated debate at Milwaukee City Hall in recent months, with Common Council members voting to ban city contractors from carrying firearms to work sites.

RELATED: Milwaukee Common Council moves to ban city contractors from carrying weapons

Asked about the issue Monday, Johnson said the two issues were "different" and he still believes city employees, except law enforcement, and contractors should not carry firearms.

He also said he didn't necessarily think residents in his district need to arm themselves, saying it is one of the safer areas of the city and "pretty quiet."

Williams said he's often asked by residents how to prevent carjackings.

"The best thing you can do is be aware of your surroundings, be aware of the people that are around you as you go about your day," Williams said.

"You can’t live in fear that something is going to happen to you because Milwaukee actually is quite a safe city and that's something you have to emphasize over and over again," he said.

Milwaukee Police District 4, where the shooting occurred, will have its regularly scheduled crime and safety meeting with residents at 6 p.m. Tuesday at the Public Safety Academy, 6680 N. Teutonia Ave.

Read or Share this story: https://jsonl.in/2GOoLJw