RZA performs with Wu-Tang Clan on the main stage of the Movement festival at Detroit's Hart Plaza on May 28, 2018. (Photo: Christopher M. Bjornberg, Special to the Free Press)

Wu-Tang Clan brought the three-day Movement festival to a resounding, fun-spirited finale late Monday, digging into its bag of hip-hop classics for a crowd that still had energy to spare.

The entire Wu-Tang crew was on hand for the occasion, with RZA, Method Man, Inspectah Deck and the rest of the New York collective backed by DJ Mathematics as they celebrated the 25th anniversary of the pioneering and influential hip-hop album “Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers).”

And for one Detroit couple, the night had an even bigger meaning: The two longtime Wu-Tang fans wed backstage Monday before the group's set.

Movement, rooted in Detroit techno, has had mixed results with hip-hop through the years, from highs like Public Enemy to lows like Snoop Dogg’s disastrous DJ set. But Wu-Tang’s progressive, underground-spawned music nails the crossover sweet-spot for an event that prides itself on that sort of stuff.

Speaking with the Free Press shortly before taking the stage, Wu-Tang rapper-producer RZA expounded at length on the links between hip-hop and techno, going back to the shared culture of their '80s origins — gear like Roland 606 drum machines, root tracks such as "Planet Rock" and genre-blurring figures such as Mantronix.

"There's definitely a common denominator between the two," said RZA. "They're like cousins, in a way. ... That's the cool thing about it — electronic music gave the individual the power to create without a band, and hip-hop was formed by that same phenomenon."

Also on Freep.com:

Movement Festival notches a third day at Hart Plaza

Amid surge of festivals, Movement asserts its role as techno ground zero

Wu-Tang took and left the stage to crowd chants of “WU-TANG! WU-TANG!” — which only intensified when the group’s audio was cut promptly at midnight during “Da Rockwilder,” because of a city-dictated Hart Plaza curfew.

After kicking off with “Protect Ya Neck,” the group skipped back to the record's opening: “Bring da Ruckus” launched a performance of “36 Chambers” in its entirety for the next 45 minutes, with various members stepping up to fill in the parts of the late Ol’ Dirty Bastard. RZA's opening spray of champagne into the front rows helped set the tone for a show that was as festive and high-spirited as it was skillfully executed, via a group of seasoned pros who looked loose and limber as they swapped verses and locked in together on big group choruses.

In a set that was emotionally exuberant and sonically crisp, the second half extended the ‘90s throwback trip, pulling in other Wu-Tang material and solo hits. A booming "Triumph" and vibrant-hued "Gravel Pit" brought the show into its homestretch before the abrupt sound cutoff.

Meanwhile, one pair of diehard Wu-Tang fans took the opportunity for a life-changing moment: getting married at Movement.

Katie Patchett, 26, and Casey Nicholson, 40, gathered with friends — one of them officiating — to wed in an informal ceremony about 45 minutes before Wu-Tang took the main stage, as Inner City’s performance pounded nearby.

The two Detroiters had met during Movement weekend four years ago, “and we fell in love right away,” as Nicholson told the Free Press.

Their wedding plans started coming together when this year’s festival lineup was announced. Patchett, who sports a Wu-Tang tattoo on her calf, clutched gold carnations Monday in a nod to the group’s logo.

Backstage, RZA assembled with group mates Inspectah Deck, Masta Killa, U-God and Mathematics to reflect on the debut album that changed their lives — and the story of hip-hop.

This year's anniversary tour is already growing, they said, with soon-to-be-announced dates that will bring the schedule to about 40 shows.

Asked if they'd have anticipated in 1993 that the left-field "Enter the Wu Tang" would lead to big festival crowds a quarter-century later, there was an instant and simultaneous "nooo."

"This didn’t come easy," said U-God. "You’re talking about years and years of hustling, sacrificing, not even being constantly aware how much footwork you’ve actually put in. You’re talking about states and continents and all types of places we’ve been, to come to this level."

Still, said RZA: "We definitely had an epiphany, an intuition, that what we were doing was something that would be groundbreaking, that would explode around the world. We wanted to be that entity. It’s a blessing that we were able to achieve that through hard work — to be here 25 years later displaying our music and having fun with kids, with people of all age, colors, creeds and genders."

"Enter the Wu Tang (36 Chambers)" remains a gateway record for many young hip-hop enthusiasts.

"We gave you a pure hip-hop album," said RZA. "Taking nothing away from our great predecessors and peers like Tribe (Called Quest) and everybody, you couldn’t even trace us totally back to jazz or any other one thing. It became like, ‘There’s only one category for this shit — hip-hop!’ And even though we pulled from soul — we pulled from everything — just the way we manipulated it, and our lyrical approach, there was no other way to define it.”

Said Masta Killa: “Universal.”

Contact Detroit Free Press music writer Brian McCollum: 313-223-4450 or bmccollum@freepress.com.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2xqqNQ8