When David Kaplan and Jenna Gerbino first laid eyes on their wedding venue, it was love at first sight. Kaplan, who co-owns East Village cocktail mecca Death & Co., and his publicist fiancée were instantly smitten with the North Fork vineyard Bedell Cellars. More than just the acclaimed pours or stylish winery, though, it was the gorgeous surroundings that seduced them; they married there last June.

“You’re so close to the city, but you feel a million miles away — you can escape to this completely other world,” raves Kaplan, who calls the combination of great beaches and wineries a “two for one.” Indeed, Long Island’s East End is arguably one of the world’s most romantic places, and its breathtaking reputation has made this slim spit of land a mecca for perfect dates, proposals and weddings.

Kelli Delaney, who runs the lifestyle bible KDHamptons and married her husband, Dr. Mark Kot, in Southampton, points out that the Hamptons are not only romantic but photogenic — increasingly critical in our Insta-world. “It’s so rare that within a matter of five minutes’ drive you could go from a farm stand to one of the best beaches in the country,” she tells Alexa. “There is something magical about the light, the way it hits the water, so wedding photos are extra gorgeous.”

To guarantee such swoony snaps, stake out a choice spot — like the bright-red St. Andrew’s Dune Church (call it Dune, like the locals) and its glorious gardens in Southampton, or Jack Lenor Larsen’s art-filled 16-acre estate and sculpture garden, LongHouse Reserve, in East Hampton. Also in the heart of East Hampton, Mulford Farm makes for a perfect ceremony venue; the rare, intact English colonial from 1680 overlooks the village’s iconic windmills.

Vineyards like Bedell or Sagaponack’s famous Wölffer Estate (celebrating its 30th anniversary this summer) have become iconic for bucolic walks down the aisle. Public-relations exec Britta Towle Morris married her financier husband, Rowan Morris, at Wölffer two summers ago; the couple had long considered it their favorite date-night spot. “We have been going to Wölffer for years to celebrate everything from Valentine’s Day to birthdays to New Year’s, so when we got engaged, it was one of the first places I thought of,” she says. “What makes it so special is you can sit there, on a beautiful outside terrace, and see the sun setting over the vineyards for dinner.”

Cinephiles Kendra and Nathaniel Feeley, meanwhile, hosted their 2013 wedding at the (now-closed) Montauk Movies. “Nat and I bonded over movies throughout our relationship — cinema was a motif of our romance,” she tells Alexa. “Our names were on the marquee, we had popcorn, Champagne and old-timey movie candies for the guests. And before the ceremony, we had a slideshow movie playing as a preview.” You can stage a similar scene as soon as the fire-ravaged Sag Harbor Cinema is rebuilt — construction is slated to begin this summer.

Wedding planner Sarah Duke of Duke + Van Deusen in East Hampton says marrying out east has another advantage: expertise. Caterers and tent-rental companies are total pros, thanks to the surfeit of charity benefits and parties held in the area by demanding socialites every summer. She suggests considering a wedding weekend in July, which is now often less busy than June or September when it comes to working with those vendors (couples have started shying away from what they assume is peak season).

And always make a Hamptons wedding a three-day — not a one-evening — event: perhaps a beach clambake on Friday, a swanky ceremony on Saturday and a kitschy pool party come Sunday morning. Then again, the relaxed rules here mean you can make the entire event into a giant beach party, as one of Duke’s clients did.

“The wedding favors were beach bags filled with sunscreen and towels, and after the ceremony the guests changed into their bathing suits for a party on a beach in front of the groom’s grandmother’s home.”

The Hamptons are also the perfect spot for those ready to propose, as financier Michael Van Camp discovered last summer. He was dining at Calissa in Water Mill with his now-fiancé, web developer Chris McLaughlin, and a group of friends. Swinging on the hanging chairs on its terrace, “He just looked at me and proposed. It was entirely spontaneous,” Van Camp recalls (they will marry at the same spot this fall).

Delaney of KDHamptons says she frequently sees such impromptu proposals on summer weekends. Those who plan ahead, meanwhile, will often book a photographer (she recommends Deborah Kalas) to lurk unobtrusively and capture the moment. For a showstopping question-popping, Delaney suggests hiring a catamaran from Heron Charters for a sunset cruise before sailing in to Montauk’s Navy Beach, where you can prearrange to meet a party of your pals.

The Hamptons can rekindle the spark for long-established couples, too. Why not take a hike together through the 2,000-plus acres of the wildlife-filled Mashomack Preserve on Shelter Island (look for the nests of breeding eagle pairs), amble down the dreamy Cooper’s Beach in Southampton at sunset or tackle the rugged beachfront at Montauk’s Shadmoor State Park? There you can clamber over the cliffs down to the surfing beach at Ditch Plains and share burritos and iced coffee from beloved kitchen trailer Ditch Witch. Sip a freshly made mai tai at Lynn’s Hula Hut, a romantic tiki bar on Montauk Pier, or cuddle under a blanket for an al fresco surf ’n’ turf supper at Duryea’s. If you want to be both smart and sexy, there’s nowhere better than the wood-paneled rooms and deep-leather armchairs of the East Hampton Public Library.

But a warning: If you embrace the sentimental side of this sliver of Long Island, expect the Hamptons to become a permanent fixture in your relationship. The Kaplans plan to return to Bedell next month for their first anniversary.

“We’ll get the wedding crew back together for a day for a catch-up and wine tasting,” he says. “I imagine we’ll make it a yearly thing.”