“Car and Driver: That's what we call it, because that’s what it’s about.”

—David E. Davis Jr.

Eddie Alterman

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

In one sense, the automobile has been a remarkably stable concept since the Patent-Motorwagen huffed out from Karl Benz's workshop back in 1886. It is still the largely explosion-powered horse-replacer that gave modern society its unprecedented level of mobility. In another sense, though, the automobile's progress has been staggering and unrelenting. We've gone from open wheels to integrated fenders to active aerodynamics; from hand-cranking to ignition keys to remote start; from powered nothing to adaptive suspensions to today's electronics suites, perched on the precipice of autonomy. Our society has been reflected in and propelled by that progress.In 1946, management thinker Peter Drucker called carmaking "the industry of industries," and there is hardly another product that sits at the intersection of so many disciplines—from manufacturing to design to engineering to materials science to energy concerns to issues of personal expression. But there's more to it than spreadsheets and marketing PowerPoints. Ever-present is the ineffable but deeply felt essence of what attracts us to a great car in the first place—that emotion, that lust triggered by an exhaust note, a whiff of hide, a loaded-up steering wheel on a fast, flowing road. It's all packed in there, between the front laser-cruise sensor and the rear backup camera.Our 60th anniversary gives us the opportunity to look back on nearly half the sweep of automotive progress, and what is arguably the most interesting part. Indeed, where would we be without all we now take for granted—disc brakes, safety belts, even Bluetooth? Back in the Dark Ages, that's where. The car has been the cave wall on which Industrial Man has painted his longings and desires. With a car, we can go wherever we want, whenever we want, in a cocoon of speed, confidence, and comfort. With a car, an engineer or a designer achieves a kind of immortality.If automotive advancement is partially measured in zero-to-60 times, then it's only right that the theme of this anniversary issue should be Zero to Sixty. In it, we've gone decade by decade to see how we arrived at the automotive now, pairing a landmark car from each era with its modern counterpart, driving them in cities that define each 10-year span. Along the way, we've also taken stock of our own progress. The little magazine for the sports-car enthusiast that started in Washington, D.C., in 1955 is now the largest of its kind anywhere in the world, with four international editions, a thriving ­digital and video business, and a staff that thanks you each morning for your loyalty. In this media-saturated moment, that's worth cel­ebrating, too. Here's to the next 60 years.