Zingerman's Camp Bacon is May 30-June 3. (Photo: Jen Prouty Photography)

If you love bacon, this event it for you.

Zingerman’s Camp Bacon, now in its ninth year, starts Wednesday and runs through June 3. The annual event celebrates all things bacon and includes a film festival, dinners and guest speakers at several of Zingerman’s venues in Ann Arbor. It ends with a free street fair June 3. Some of the events are sold out. Ticket proceeds help support Southern Foodways Alliance and the Washtenaw County 4-H.

Here’s what is still available.

Camp Bacon Food Film Festival, 6:30-8:30 p.m. Wednesday at Greyline (Zingerman's venue for private events), 100 N. Ashley St., Ann Arbor. The festival will feature six short documentaries from Southern Foodways Alliance on immigrants who have settled in the South and spread their cultural and culinary influences. There will be a discussion after the films. Cost is $35 per person and includes a build-your-own BLT bar, caramel bacon popcorn and soft drinks. You can buy beer, wine and cocktails. The Bourbon Watermelon Smash, a special Camp Bacon Film Fest cocktail, will be featured.

The Porcine Predilections menu will be offered at Korean restaurant Miss Kim 7-9:30 p.m. May 31. Ji Hye Kim, managing partner and head chef at Miss Kim, has crafted a menu featuring pork belly bossam, pork skin tteokbokki, Koryo carrot salad, braised pork shoulder with kimchi and Benton’s bacon-braised collard greens, and fried apple dumpling with candied Nueske’s bacon bits. Cost is $75, which includes a bottle of soju or a flight of five house-infused soju shots. Miss Kim, 415 N. Fifth Ave., Ann Arbor.

The main event is 9 a.m.–5 p.m. June 2 at Zingerman’s Cornman Farms, 8540 Island Lake Road in Dexter. Speakers will address topics such as snout-to-tail cooking, pork in African-American cuisine and culture, bacon and architecture, and sustainable pig farming. Speakers include Eddie Hernandez, author of the newly released “Turnip Greens & Tortillas: A Mexican Chef Spices Up the Southern Kitchen” (Rux Martin Books, Houghton Mifflin, $30). Cost is $195 per person.

June 3, the last day of Camp Bacon, starts with the Biscuit Love Breakfast, 9:30-11:30 a.m. at Greyline, 100 N. Ashley St., Ann Arbor. It will feature Nashville’s Karl Worley serving up his famous biscuits, including biscuits stuffed with Nashville hot chicken, biscuits and gravy, candied Chronic Bacon and biscuits with blueberry compote and lemon curd mascarpone. Cost is $50; $10 of the ticket price will be donated to Southern Foodways and $10 to a local 4-H chapter.

The free street fair is 11-a.m.-2 p.m. June 3 at the Artisan Market, 315 Detroit St. in Ann Arbor's Kerrytown district. You can sample or buy from vendors who will be showcasing all things bacon.

For information and tickets: events.zingermanscommunity.com

Contact Susan Selasky at 313-222-6872 or sselasky@freepress.com. Follow @SusanMariecooks on Twitter.

Read or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2LprLPy