Posted by Lyn on Dec 19, 2017 in Yacht Charter fleet

7 Best Things to Do When Cruising the Bahamas

If you are interested in offering yourself the perfect vacation that brings you pure relaxation and incredible adventure, the best option is a luxury yacht charter experience.

Absolute decadence, comfort, and opulence are the main elements of the Caribbean yacht charter escapade. And, together with the opportunity to visit fascinating settings, explore deserted islands and luxuriate in exclusive dinner parties, the yachting experience offers travelers that chance to unreservedly de-stress in a lavish atmosphere.

Here are 7 unforgettable things to do when cruising the charming Bahamas islands:

1. Snorkeling, Diving and Exploring the Exotic Marine Life: Thunderball Grotto

Spending your cherished vacation days enjoying an exclusive yacht charter adventure can definitely bring you a well-deserved liberation feeling. In addition, there is no doubt that taking the most exciting snorkeling trip of your life can intensify that feeling, offering you the best experience of your life.

Thunderball Grotto is located west of Staniel Cay and it is everything you imagine when you think about exploring an underwater cave. Prepare to leave the lavish yacht and rejoice yourself with the ultimate snorkeling adventure, admiring the exotic fish, the incredibly colored coral reefs and all the surprises hidden by the fantastic underwater cave. Once you get to explore the Thunderball Grotto, you understand why Hollywood wanted to film movies like Thunderball, Splash, and Into the Blue in this area.

2. Meet the Famous, Adorable Swimming Pigs at Major Cay

A Caribbean yacht charter experience gives you the chance to relax and indulge in the flavorful dishes and exclusive wine offered on board while preparing yourself for another adventure in the Bahamas islands. Meeting the enchanting Swimming Pigs is an adventure that will permanently remain with you, not only because of their undeniable cuteness but also because of the captivating beauty of the island which is entirely uninhabited by humans.

The pigs live on Big Major Cay and they are surrounded by mystery. According to local legends, they might have been dropped off by pirates. There is no certitude about how the island became inhabited by these delightful creatures but, we know with absolute certainty that the pigs will chase you if you are carrying food. And some are quite imposing, so you might want to leave your luxurious food on board. Otherwise, the pigs are happy and friendly and you will instantly feel the relaxed vibe of the island.

3. Swimming with the Friendly Nurse Sharks at Compass Cay

Chartering a luxury yacht in the Bahamas is a perfect way to spend your precious days away from the normal, stressful life. Not only do you have the chance to experience the lavish life on board, but you can also create unforgettable memories when island-hopping in the Bahamas. And one of the most amazing experiences you can have is swimming with the nurse sharks at Compass Cay.

In a beautiful place, with turquoise waters, soft, sandy beaches, and with paradisiacal coastlines, you will meet the nurse sharks, with their big, dorsal fins. Even though they are real sharks, as long as you behave, they are harmless and swimming together is an amazing experience. However, keep in mind they might bite defensively if bothered or stepped on accidentally. In addition, if you pet them, just touch their backs, staying always from their mouth and try not to enter the water if you have an open wound. Swimming with the nurse sharks is undoubtedly a special activity that deserves to be added to the list of things you must do when cruising the charming Bahamas islands.

4. Indulge in a Tasty Lunch at Shirley’s at the Fish Fry

There is no doubt that the private luxurious yachting experience in the Bahamas islands is the maximum in decadence you and everybody else desire. However, even if your yacht chef is present to fulfill all your culinary dreams, exploring the local cuisine is a must when visiting the islands.

One of the best restaurants in the Bahamas, is Shirley’s at the Fish Fry, a collection of little restaurants, located close to George Town. This area is known for serving some of the most delicious food on the island. Not only is the Fish Fry memorable and authentic, but many travelers consider it central to their island experience. Whether you prefer indulging in the exquisite crab cakes or you prefer savoring Shirley’s curried and fried lobster, you will leave the restaurant completely satisfied and ready for new adventures in the Bahamian style.

5. Relax on a Pink Sand Beach on Charming Harbour Island

The Caribbean yacht charter experience offers you the relaxation and the pampering everybody is longing for. And when the opportunity to spend an unwinding day on a pink sand beach is added to the flawless services on board, your dreams turn into reality.

Harbour Island is a tiny, charming island that lies just northwest of Eleuthera Island, in the Bahamas. This is the special island where you are going to admire and enjoy relaxing on the soft pink sand beaches. The landscapes are breathtaking, the pink sand is soft and welcoming, and the waters are clear and warm.

6. Spend an Unforgettable Day Interacting with the Dolphins at Dolphin Cay, Atlantis

Even though the Caribbean yacht charter experience you chose has everything you need, there are some things only island-hopping can offer. For instance, yachting in the Bahamas without having the dolphin experience at Dolphin Cay, Atlantis is not recommendable. The thrilling feelings offered by the shallow water interaction, the deep water swim, and any other experience available at Dolphin Cay are incredible and should not be missed.

Dolphin Cay is unlike anything else in the world. It is one of the world’s largest open-air, man-made marine mammal habitats with fantastic rescue-rehabilitation facilities. It offers an impressive number of activities, such as getting closer to the dolphins in in waist-high water, swimming freely in deep water, paddling and many other interesting things to do with the adorable dolphins.

7. Luxuriate in a Lavish Dinner Party on the Beach

The dramatic landscapes and the warm climate make the Bahamas a popular destination especially for travelers interested in the nonconformist yacht charter market and eager to offer themselves an exclusive winter yachting vacation.

Furthermore, the breathtaking landscapes and the weather are also contributing to making many interesting activities available. For instance, your Caribbean yacht charter gives you the chance to enjoy a luxurious beach party. The brilliant crew and the master chef of the yacht will prepare everything, from the tables and cabanas to the extravagant food and exclusive wine, in order to offer you the ultimate lavish dining experience on the beach.

These are the 7 bewildering things to do when cruising the Bahamas. Considering the fact that you can indulge in all of these activities and that there are many more interesting things to do in the Bahamas, start planning your Caribbean yacht charter holiday as soon as possible.

The famous Liquid sky yacht was recently launched and is available for charter through World Yacht Group. Begin planning the extravagant vacation you desire and deserve by contacting World Yacht Group for further information on charter rates and availability.