Posted by World Yacht Group on Dec 7, 2017 in Yacht Sales fleet

Bunker Available for Sale through WYG with a Full Refit

Launched in 2005 with refits in 2012 and 2014 Bunker, the luxurious yacht built by the Italian shipyard CRN and designed by Zuccon International Project, just had a new full remodeling in 2017, becoming the best 40m / 130′ yacht for sale available on the market.

The lavish yacht is in a perfect condition and it comes with an opulent exterior and an elegant interior creating a safe, comfortable and extravagant life aboard for its guests.



A Luxury Yacht with an Impeccable Mechanical Equipment

Thanks to its two MTU 12v4000 M90 2.736CV engines and two Kholer 100KW generators, the sumptuous yacht has a cruising speed of 17kn and a maximum speed of 22kn.

The opulent Bunker is not only cosmetically perfect but the luxurious 2017 version has major upgrades on all the mechanical systems, engines, as well generators ensuring a flawless function.

In order to take care of every detail, 1,200,000 Euros had been spent on renovating Bunker in 2017.



Bunker Presents Lavish Furnishing and Irreproachable Décor

The incredible decor can be observed just by catching a glimpse of the luxurious yacht. Combining lush accessories from famous designers, in addition to the 43 pieces of art that decorate its walls, the yacht that shows an intriguing conservative elegance together with great sophistication and fashionable design.

The new flooring, the revamped walls, ceilings, and doors, together with the stylish furniture created by the top designer Roche Bobois and the fancy Nina Marching carpets offer Bunker a new, modern and more appealing appearance. In addition, the luxury yacht charter experience will be enhanced by the chance to admire the 43 pieces of art signed by famous artists like Patrick Rubinstein, Fidia Falaschetti, Carlos Enrique Gonzalez, Denial, Alec Monopoli and worth over $300,000.

Furthermore, apart from the divine dishes created by talented chefs, the culinary adventure will be magnified by the Christofle kitchenware, while the sleep experience will definitely be intensified by the soft, qualitative linens, towels and blankets designed by the consecrated Hermes and Roberto Cavalli.

Life Abroad the Revamped Bunker

With a new modern and warm interior, Bunker can accommodate up to 12 guests in one master cabin king size bedroom, two VIP cabins with queen beds, and two charming twin cabins.

Additionally, the luxury yacht can provide accommodation for up to 8 crew members ready to offer great service and a spectacular cruising experience for all Bunker’s guests.

Guests will be able to enjoy an amazing modern entertainment system that will undoubtedly enhance the whole luxurious yacht charter experience.

Because of the software Control 4, all Bunker guests can use their iPhone or iPad in order to play music on any area of the yacht, switch any TV and play any channel they desire, as well as switch On & Off the lights of every area on board.

Moreover, in order to provide a sensational journey, the lavish yacht offers not only ample space on board for ultimate comfort but also many different areas for a diversity of activities.

Therefore, whether you are interested in luxuriating in the Jacuzzi, prefer to dine at the middle deck dining table, unwind on the main deck outdoor area, read a book while sunbathing on the sun deck or indulge in the comfort offered by the sky lounge salon and the new 65’’ LED TV, Bunker offers everything you desire in order to have your dream vacation.

There is no doubt that Bunker is one of the most special and unique yachts one can find.

Not only is the luxury yacht embellished with an impressive number of artworks, but she is a piece of art itself and it is now offered at the excellent value of 6,950,000 Euros.

For further information about Bunker, as well as if you have financial questions about buying a luxury yacht, contact World Yacht Group.