New Year's Eve is one of the most special nights to enjoy with your family or friends. Sydney is one of the best available options for people who want to celebrate the New Year arriving with beach and sun. It is one of the most cosmopolitan cities of all Australia, and to welcome the New Year they organise a spectacular fireworks show, and it is ideal to watch on board of a luxurious yacht.

Amazing bays to complete an unforgettable charter

Australian summer is another great excuse for enjoying an unforgettable charter during your Christmas holidays. Sydney can boast of exceptional bays for relaxing, sunbathing and doing water sports. Manly and Bondi Beach are the most popular. Surf lovers are especially enthusiastic about these beaches. Don’t miss the opportunity of trying this popular sport in Australia and surfing the waves of the Pacific Ocean. Sailing to the Sea Life Sanctuary will allow you to have a closer look at the Australian fauna like sharks, marine turtles, dolphins or penguins.

In the north of the city, there is Whale Beach and Palm Beach. As its name hints, Whale Beach is the home of whales and on board of your yacht you will have an exclusive position to observe them closely. Exceptional restaurants inspirited by Moby Dick’s story encircle the bay. A little more to the north, Palm Beach has bays with turquoise water where you can swim with total comfort. In the afternoon, you can enjoy a fantastic sunset and a panoramic view from Barrenjoey Lighthouse.

The surroundings of Sydney have many other charms to discover. In Collaroy you will find spectacular landscapes ideal for enjoying an amazing lunch on board with your family or friends, prepared by your personal chef. Also, in Newport, there are bays with a lot of privacy and ideal to do paddle surf, wakeboard or waterski. The bottom of the Australian Sea, is home of many marine species. Practice snorkel or scuba diving and discover the richness of the oceanic fauna and the wide reef reserves.

If you want to discover more bays, we recommend you to not leave Sydney without going to Little Bay. Located at 14 kilometres of the centre of the city, this beach was known at the end of the XIX century because of an outbreak of smallpox, and the main reason why they built a hospital there. Nowadays, it’s an amazing bay for relaxing and swimming on board of your yacht.

Sydney, a city with a lot of must see

Sydney has a lot of must see before ending your charter. Anchor your yacht in the port in front of the bridge of Sydney Harbour and admire the fantastic views of the city. Opera House is another must see because of its architectural beauty and the big shows taking place in the opera. In the centre of the city, you will find Royal Botanic Gardens, ideal to see unique flora in its recreated habitat, and Hyde Park to relax. Moreover for the shopping lovers Darling Harbour is a must as there they will find the most known brands of the world. When the sunset arrives, go to the Sydney Tower Eye, similar to London, and enjoy the amazing panoramic views of the capital of South Wales. It has a exterior and a glass platform to enjoy Sydney in 360º.

In the centre of the city, you will find two of the best restaurants like Bridge Room, inspired by European gastronomy, and Sepia, an ideal place where you can taste seafood prepared by two of the best local chefs. In Rocks harbour, there is Quay restaurant, with amazing direct views to Sydney Harbour and the Opera House. These three restaurants are the best of the city according to gastronomic critics.

The nightlife is as good as his gastronomy. Sydney has lots of exclusive clubs where to enjoy a big night out. Remember that the Australian law doesn’t allow entering to any club later than 1:30am. Pacha, one of the best known night club chain in the world has one of its clubs in Sydney. Ivy is another popular option. It has a big pool and international DJs as well as diners.

Start the New Year with luxury and comfort

The Australian continent is the second in the world to change to the new year after New Zealand. Sydney organizes amazing fireworks around the bridge of Sydney Harbour and Opera House, two of the most popular places in the city. If you want to enjoy the spectacle with total luxury and comfort, chartering a luxurious yacht is one of the most exclusive options you have.

Boats between 25 and 50 meters of length will allow you to be in the first line, without anything or anyone to disturb your spectacle. Also, Australians make an exception and lets charter yachts sailing around Sydney Harbour with more than 12 people on board. No excuses to invite all your friends to the event!

After slipping in the New Year, enjoy a private and exclusive party on board of your yacht with your family and friends until the early morning. In Sydney you will find all the necessary ingredients to enjoy your Christmas holidays with total comfort and finish the year on an incredible touch with fireworks.